
LONDON — After the darkest of winters, the mood in Britain is finally lifting. On Feb. 22, Prime Minister 
“The crocus of hope is poking through the frost and spring is on the way,” Mr. Johnson said at a news conference from Downing Street, with characteristic pomp.
Britons could be forgiven for being skeptical. Mr. Johnson’s handling of the pandemic has been riddled with bluster, broken promises and devastating results: more than 120,000 people have died here, the highest total in Europe and, per capita, 
But amid a surprisingly successful vaccine rollout, hope is rising. As of late February, Britain had vaccinated over 20 million people — more than a quarter of the population — with at least a first dose. Only 
On Feb. 24, a newspaper in Germany carried 
For Britons it is a disorienting change in fortunes, since the country has spent most of the past year as a case study in how not to handle a pandemic.
In the spring of 2020, Mr. Johnson resisted calls for a lockdown, boasted that he was still shaking hands “with everybody” and swiftly contracted the virus himself. As Britain entered the summer, it had already lost more lives than any other country in Europe, up to 20,000 of which, 
Between November and January a soaring infection rate and 
What a difference a few weeks have made.
Mr. Johnson’s government can take some credit. Britain controversially 
But this success also belongs to the National Health Service, which entered the pandemic already struggling under 10 years of Conservative austerity. Famously called the “the closest thing the English people have to a national religion,” by Nigel Lawson, a Conservative lawmaker, trust in the N.H.S. is high, and so is vaccine uptake: A recent 
So, the Conservative government is riding high. Mr. Johnson’s approval ratings, 
The E.U.’s travails have only sweetened the Conservative Party’s success. For a government that was elected at the end of 2019 to “Get Brexit Done,” and a country that officially left the E.U. just a couple of months before recording its first cases of Covid-19, Britain’s comparative speed has played perfectly into the Brexiteers’ caricature of an inept and inefficient bloc. In one fraught exchange, in which the E.U. threatened to block vaccines destined for Britain, only to back down and then falsely claim the vaccine 
Conservatives have encouraged Britons to make the same connection. Matt Hancock, the health secretary, claimed that Britain’s regulatory speed was “
Given Britain’s high death toll, and the worst recession 
The pandemic has proved useful in other ways, too, by keeping public attention off the immediate problems caused by Brexit, like disrupted supply chains and shortages in supermarkets, and making the economic consequences of Brexit less visible, even if those will last longer.
Mr. Johnson is known for his Teflon qualities, and the pandemic could prove to be the definitive case. His errors have been blatant, repetitive and costly, but a triumphant vaccine rollout has put a spring in his step.
After an annus horribilis, Mr. Johnson is enjoying his finest hour — and he will be hard to stop.
Samuel Earle (