
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering 
For more than a week, the streets of Barcelona, Madrid and other Spanish hubs 
Barcelona was once 
“It’s not the same now for a person who is 60 — or a 50-year-old with life experience and everything completely organized — as it is for a person who is 18 now and has the feeling that every hour they lose to this pandemic, it’s like losing their entire life,” said Enric Juliana, an opinion columnist with La Vanguardia, Barcelona’s leading newspaper.
Here are the 
U.S. federal drug regulators on Saturday 
The Israeli government approved a measure to 
Australia, normally a secondary market for big-brand stage shows developed in New York and London, has become an unexpected pandemic pioneer: 
A growing number of countries, including India, Hungary and Israel, have announced that 
As trade disputes pile up, Britain and the E.U. have fallen out politically and diplomatically with a speed and a bitterness that have surprised even pessimists about the relationship.
Tensions have flared since a new trade agreement formalized Brexit on Jan. 1. Britain refused to grant full diplomatic status to the European Union’s envoy to London, while European leaders lashed out at vaccine shortages, 
In a sign of the battles to come, the Bank of England’s governor, Andrew Bailey, warned last week of a “serious escalation” in tensions if the E.U. tried to force banks to move the clearance of euro-denominated derivatives trading from London to the continent.
The Hong Kong authorities on Sunday charged 47 pro-democracy figures with 
The 47 helped to organize an informal election in July to pick candidates from Hong Kong’s pro-democratic political camp to run for office. In doing so, the authorities say, they violated the security law’s provisions against interfering with, disrupting or undermining the functions of the Chinese or Hong Kong governments.
Denied a send-off parade in New York and assigned to the French Army because their own countrymen refused to fight alongside them, the 
It took the U.S. Army more than a century to adopt the moniker as the official special designation for the regiment, a distinction just approved by the Army in September and announced this year by the New York National Guard on the eve of Black History Month.
My brief, you could say, was to review the Book Review, to consider the coverage of “women, people of color, L.G.B.T.Q. writers” and changing mores in criticism. But what revelatory news could I possibly bring? The word “archive” derives from the ancient Greek 
What could those reviews contain? Some misjudgments, to be sure — masterpieces misunderstood in their time. A few preternaturally sensitive assessments. Fluorescent condescension and stereotype. Above all, the pleasant and dubious satisfactions of feeling superior to the past.
And yet. In recent years, The Times has faced scrutiny of the racial and 
But what about the reviews themselves: the language, the criteria? When “women, people of color, L.G.B.T.Q. writers” 
That’s it for this briefing. Have a great start to the week.
— Natasha