
Corporations have increasingly taken social and political stands, often spurred by the policies of former President Donald Trump. But the dispute over voting rights is different, presenting a “head-spinning new landscape for big companies,” 
The night before a group of more than 70 Black executives 
But while “there is undoubtedly going to be a cost,” Cecilia Rouse, one of the White House’s top economic advisers, 
As the financial world reckons with the 
Around 50 groups have filed amicus briefs in a coming Supreme Court case pitting charities against the state of California in a fight over donation disclosures. The Capitol riot on Jan. 6 put a spotlight on 
The federal government is with California, more or less, 
As the “suits” finally get into Bitcoin, the crypto crowd has moved on to the next big thing: BitClout, a “
Bitcoin holders can buy BitClout’s cryptocurrency to exchange for influencer tokens, but can’t yet get Bitcoin back and off the platform. The company says it’s working on it.
“BitClout is trying to create ownership through code instead of law” but may find itself “throttled,” said Michael Heller, a Columbia law professor. “People don’t much like strangers messing with their reputations,” he added, and the “right of publicity” lets them police who can profit off their clout.
Pinterest has held talks to buy VSCO, a once-buzzy photography app. (
Hertz picked a group including Centerbridge Partners and Warburg Pincus to lead its plan to emerge from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. (
Carl Icahn has hired Aris Kekedjian, a former chief investment officer at G.E., to become C.E.O. of Icahn Enterprises. (
More than two dozen companies in the Fortune 500 paid no federal income tax despite reporting a combined $77 billion in profits over the past three years. (
Increased scrutiny of Chinese tech companies by Beijing has led to a big uptick in I.P.O. cancellations on Shanghai’s tech-focused Star market. (
Streaming services are finally starting to run out of content. (
Investors are setting up digital trading floors on Clubhouse. (
The surprise tax burden that may await those who worked remotely during the pandemic. (
Among the collateral damage from Brooks Brothers’ bankruptcy filing: a huge bill to clear a warehouse full of unwanted mannequins. (
“How Brexit Ruined Easter for Britain’s Chocolate Makers” (
We’d like your feedback! Please email thoughts and suggestions to 