
Next month, Jane Fraser will take over Citigroup — and a major turnaround effort. “The sprawling institution has been limping along in third place among the four biggest U.S. banks, underwhelming its investors and irritating regulators,” 
Source: FactSet
The New York Times
“When you get the job you don’t think of this in terms of: ‘OK, I’m a woman getting a job,’” she said. “You think about: What is it that the company needs today? What needs to be the same? I certainly have a different style, but I don’t think it’s necessarily so much gender related.”
The SPAC Atlas Crest 
“Small investor, big client” is how Mr. Moelis described the bank’s current and future relationship with Archer, newly flush with fresh investment and a big order book.
The former Citigroup executive is running for New York City mayor on the strength of the story of his rise from poverty to Wall Street’s top ranks, his enviable list of contacts and his promises of progressive policies. But it’s unclear whether New York voters outside the business community that abhors Mayor Bill de Blasio will buy that argument, 
For his part, Mr. Bloomberg reportedly favors a rival candidate, Shaun Donovan, who served in his administration.
If those policing Big Tech had tools as powerful as companies do, they might detect and prevent anti-competitive activity more effectively. Many antitrust agencies around the world are underfunded and overwhelmed, contending with massive amounts of information and fast-moving markets. Automation is a way to “fight fire with fire,” according to 
Felix Chang of the University of Cincinnati has been working on automated antitrust reviews for a few years, mining a Harvard database of court cases to spot patterns in language that provide “
Microsoft reportedly approached Pinterest about a potential takeover, though talks aren’t currently active. (
The dating app Bumble beat expectations by raising $2.2 billion in its I.P.O., valuing the Blackstone-backed company at over $7 billion. (
Ram Sundaram, a top trader at Goldman Sachs, is leaving the firm after two decades as it focuses on its advisory business. (
President Biden is reportedly considering Lisa Cook, an economist at Michigan State University, for the Fed’s board of governors. She would be the first Black woman in the role. (
Senator Bernie Sanders grilled Neera Tanden, Mr. Biden’s pick to lead the Office of Management and Budget, over the large corporate donations she secured while running a think tank. (
Twitter’s C.F.O. said the social network 
Robinhood’s C.E.O., Vlad Tenev, defended high-frequency trading, saying the practice helped provide “better” prices for the average investor. (
Tech moguls gave away more money last year than they ever have. But there are still questions about how that money will be used. (
How Merck, a vaccine giant, lost the race to create a Covid-19 shot. (
In an op-ed, Nouriel Roubini explains why Bitcoin “doesn’t belong in the portfolios” of serious investors. (
“Reddit Is America’s Unofficial Unemployment Hotline” (
We’d like your feedback! Please email thoughts and suggestions to 