
For decades, corporate America was seen as a natural ally of the Republican Party. But as companies increasingly use their clout to speak out on social issues, a rift has emerged. “Parts of the private sector keep dabbling in behaving like a woke parallel government,” Senator 
Topps, known for its trading cards and Bazooka gum, is going public by merging with a SPAC in a deal that values the company at $1.3 billion. The transaction includes an investment of $250 million led by the SPAC sponsor Mudrick Capital, along with investors including GAMCO and Wells Capital. Michael Eisner, the former Disney C.E.O. who is Topps’s chairman, will roll his entire stake into the new company, and stay on.
Michael Brandstaedter, the C.E.O. of Topps, said he expected baseball memorabilia to continue to be lifted by trends like players coming up from the minor leagues more quickly even after the pandemic bump fades.
September is the new July — at least in the target dates some companies are giving their employees for a return to the office (if they’re setting a date at all). “Flexible” and “hybrid” working will be common, judging by what some big companies 
Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen called for 
SoftBank agreed to buy 40 percent of AutoStore, a warehouse automation company, at an $8 billion valuation. (
Apollo Global Management is reportedly leading a group to buy a $10 billion stake in Saudi Aramco’s oil pipelines. (
The short seller Carson Block is planning to bet against more SPACs, calling the market for blank-check firms a “scam.” (
London-based bankers still fear their industry is being left behind in Britain’s negotiations with the E.U. over relations after Brexit. (
What is infrastructure, really? (
Why China is racing to create the first digital currency to be backed by a major central bank. (
Uber let its drivers in California see passenger destinations and name prices as it fought moves to categorize them as employees. Having won, it may now revoke that. (
“What’s Good About Tech Bubbles” (
The C.E.O. of Norwegian Cruise Line argues that pandemic restrictions on his industry should be loosened: “I’d like to hear an argument why we couldn’t sail.” (
The Winklevoss twins may have lost their fight for Facebook, but they have since become billionaire crypto kingpins. (
China’s latest effort to blunt criticism of its treatment of Muslims in the Xinjiang region is … a musical. (
We’d like your feedback! Please email thoughts and suggestions to 