
More than 70 Black executives have signed a letter calling on companies to fight a wave of voting-rights bills similar to the one recently passed in Georgia, which they say will make it harder for Black people to vote. Similar bills are being advanced by Republicans in at least 43 states, and the signatories are demanding that companies speak up more forcefully than they did in Georgia, 
The signers included Roger Ferguson Jr., the chief executive of TIAA; Mellody Hobson and John Rogers Jr., the chief executives of Ariel Investments; and Ray McGuire, a former Citigroup executive who is running for mayor of New York.
Shares in the British food delivery service Deliveroo tumbled as much as 30 percent in their first day of trading this morning, after the company 
Investors also generally worry that food delivery services will lose steam as pandemic lockdowns ease.
Cazoo’s founder, Alex Chesterman, specifically 
One of the biggest criticisms of blank-check funds is the misalignment of interests between the companies’ sponsors and later investors, particularly retail buyers. In his latest column, Andrew 
Apple is investing in UnitedMasters, a music distribution company that lets musicians bypass traditional record labels. Artists who distribute through UnitedMasters keep ownership of their master recordings and pay either a yearly fee or 10 percent of their royalties. Apple led the funding round, announced today, which DealBook hears values UnitedMasters at $350 million.
Damien Hirst, the renowned British artist, is getting into 
The F.T.C. sued to block the medical diagnostics company Illumina’s $7.1 billion takeover of Grail, another sign of the U.S. government’s tougher approach to antitrust enforcement. (
Dapper Labs, the blockchain company behind the N.B.A.’s “Top Shot” nonfungible tokens, raised $305 million at a $2.6 billion valuation. (
President Biden’s climate ambitions face big hurdles: carmakers that want more subsidies to fund a switch to electric vehicles and auto unions fearful of job losses. (
A leaked document purportedly shows how Amazon handpicked employees to defend the company on Twitter against critics like Senator Bernie Sanders. (
PayPal rolled out a new service for paying online using cryptocurrencies. (
The latest signs that remote working is here to stay: JPMorgan Chase, PricewaterhouseCoopers and Salesforce are looking to sublease their office space. (
Tech industry workers say remote working has led to more gender and racial harassment. (
Americans are 
We’d like your feedback! Please email thoughts and suggestions to 