
Good morning. It’s the first day of the new year.
We’re covering the 
Most places in the world, from a virtually coronavirus-free New Zealand to an Ireland in lockdown, have now greeted the arrival of 
In Auckland, 
Though Madrid eased its curfew for the night from midnight to 1:30 a.m., people were told to stay at home as much as possible, to eat the traditional New Year’s Eve grapes while watching events on TV (and gathering in groups of no more than six). London’s Big Ben, largely silent in recent years as its clock tower underwent renovations, rang 12 times at midnight. And in Paris, the only people roaming the Champs-Élysées were some of the 100,000 police officers deployed around the country to prevent crowds from gathering.
As the U.S. confronted new waves of infection and death through the summer and fall, the president’s
The result, according to interviews with current and former administration officials, was a lose-lose situation. Not only was President Trump 
Here are 
Untold numbers of vaccine doses will expire before they can be injected into American arms, while communities around the country are dealing with 
A pharmacist at a Wisconsin hospital has been arrested and accused of intentionally removing more than 500 doses of coronavirus vaccine from refrigeration last week, knowing that they 
Some family doctors in Britain said they would 
As of today, with the 
Though 
Above, a wedding at the Sakura Park gazebo in Manhattan, broadcast live over Zoom. “Nothing about our wedding was what we planned or expected, but I wouldn’t trade any moment of it,” writes Katherine Smith, from Arlington, Va.
We asked readers to 
For the first time in decades, Times Square was 
“There are absolutely no spectators allowed in Times Square,” Chief Terence Monahan, the New York City Police Department’s top uniformed member, said at a news conference. “Don’t even attempt to come down there and watch it.” he added.
A ball drop — or something like it — has been 
(The flames were controlled and very much intentional. In fact, they were the idea of The Times’s publisher, Adolph S. Ochs, who was hoping to show off the new building after dragging the paper back from the brink of bankruptcy.)
“No more beautiful picture was ever limned in fire on the curtain of midnight,” 
Since the ball itself was introduced in 1907, it has been lowered on New Year’s Eve 
This year, although the ball did drop, all uninvited guests were turned away, with pedestrian traffic limited as of 3 p.m. on Thursday. All in all, a far more muted affair — in keeping with a highly altered year.
That’s it for this briefing. I’m off next week, but you’ll be in capable hands for the briefings. Wishing you a wonderful weekend, and a peaceful start to 2021.
— Natasha