
Good morning.
We’re covering the sentencing of 
A Moscow court sentenced Aleksei Navalny, President Vladimir Putin’s loudest critic, to more than two years in prison on Tuesday for violating parole from a 2014 suspended sentence by not checking in with the authorities, including while he was in Germany recovering from being poisoned in August. The decision is likely to send him to a far-flung penal colony for the first time.
Mr. Navalny may seek to appeal the ruling, but the Russian authorities have signaled that 
“You cannot lock up the whole country,” Mr. Navalny told the court. He said the Russian president was angry at him for surviving after being poisoned with the military-grade nerve agent Novichok in August.
The Sputnik V vaccine developed in Russia has been shown to 
AstraZeneca and Oxford University released data showing that 
Separately, the upstart drugmaker Moderna 
Here are 
In an effort to 
Portugal, struggling to contain an outbreak that has led to Europe’s highest death rate, has 
The fast-spreading coronavirus variant first observed in Britain has gained a worrisome mutation that could make it 
Former President Donald Trump’s lawyers 
Mr. Trump’s words to supporters were protected by his First Amendment right of free speech, they said, adding that his comments were not meant as a reference to violent action, but were “about the need to fight for election security in general.”
In their own filing, House prosecutors argued that Mr. Trump was “singularly responsible” for the Jan. 6 rampage and a broader attack on democracy that showed he would do anything to “reassert his grip on power” if allowed to seek election again. The trial is set to start next Tuesday.
The British screenwriter Steven Knight, above, 
“When reality offers you such an unusual dislocation of what is normal, a situation that no one has been through before, it can be quite gleeful to write about — it’s like stepping on fresh snow,” he said.
That’s it for this briefing. Thanks for starting your day with The Times.
— Natasha