
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering 
The Kremlin mounted Russia’s most fearsome nationwide police operation in recent memory on Sunday, seeking to overwhelm a protest movement supporting the jailed opposition leader Aleksei Navalny that swept across the country for the second weekend in a row.
More than 5,000 people, including Mr. Navalny’s wife, Yulia Navalnaya, were detained, but many have been released. 
Myanmar’s civilian leader, 
Officials from the National League for Democracy, Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi’s party, confirmed the detentions. Hours later, with politicians and activists alike racing to find out who had been detained, a military television network announced a one-year state of emergency with power transferred to the army chief, Senior Gen. Min Aung Hlaing.
The European Union has 
The bloc’s initial announcement, on Friday, was criticized by both the Republic of Ireland, a member of the European Union, and Northern Ireland, a part of the United Kingdom. Arlene Foster, Northern Ireland’s first minister, called the move “an incredible act of hostility.”
Ursula von der Leyen, the European Commission president, quickly backed down, insisting that a mistake had been made and that any vaccine export controls would not affect the Brexit agreement, which assured that there would be no new border checks between Ireland and Northern Ireland.
Moving to use the emergency measures so soon after 
Here are the 
Poor countries locked out of the market for expensive Covid-19 vaccines are at risk of 
The British Army veteran Tom Moore, who 
In her book “La Familia Grande,” the writer Camille Kouchner, above, accused her stepfather, the French intellectual Olivier Duhamel, of sexually abusing her twin brother when they were teenagers. The allegations have pushed France 
“If you do not speak, you leave an upside-down world,” she said. “You have to take the risk because you have a small chance of saying to those who suffer that their suffering is not for nothing.”
This is the largest sustained protest movement that Mr. Modi has faced since he became prime minister in 2014. There have been other waves of unrest, notably last year when people took to the streets over amendments to citizenship laws that many saw as discriminatory against Muslims, but nothing of this magnitude.
This is about an issue that affects such a large cross-section of Indian society — more than 60 percent of Indians still depend on agriculture for their livelihoods. Mr. Modi has now publicly distanced himself from the issue, rarely commenting on the protests as he tries to plot his government’s next steps.
Both sides have dug in deep, and it’s difficult to see how this will resolve anytime soon. Even if one side makes a concession, it will most likely be a dragged-out process beforehand to create face-saving.
Except for 
Campsites where tens of thousands of farmers have stayed through cold and rain over the past two months have a deep sense of community. A large number of the protesters are of the Sikh faith, and feeding people through large food tents, called langars, is a matter not just of tradition but also of pride. That practice and the culture of volunteerism rooted in the faith give the movement a durability that is difficult to derail.
That’s it for this briefing. Wishing you a peaceful Monday.
— Natasha