
LONDON — As Britain’s economy emerges from its worst recession in three centuries, the government has announced tens of billions of pounds in additional spending to see workers and businesses through the summer and the coronavirus vaccine rollout. But it has also laid out a plan to raise taxes once the pandemic is expected to be over.
Britain’s chancellor of the Exchequer, Rishi Sunak, announced a wide range of measures to support the economic recovery in his latest 
“Coronavirus has caused one of the largest, most comprehensive and sustained economic shocks this country has ever faced,” Mr. Sunak said. But the government’s response has also been large, he said.
The Treasury has planned spending of about 344 billion pounds (about $480 billion) on its pandemic response. And measures like a furlough program, which covers 80 percent of wages for people unable to work because of pandemic restrictions, have helped make the chancellor the 
Mr. Sunak is trying to use this budget to juggle a number of goals. In the short term, he is aiming to create a bridge until the economy fully reopens. But he has also been under pressure to explain how he will tackle the budget deficit. Borrowing this fiscal year has climbed to £355 billion, a peacetime record and a sixfold increase from the previous year.
On Wednesday, Mr. Sunak announced the first increase in the headline rate of corporate taxes since 1974. Beginning in 2023, corporate taxes will rise for companies with profits greater than £50,000, from the current rate of 19 percent, topping out at 25 percent for companies with profits above £250,000. That’s still below the 28 percent rate that the Conservative government inherited in 2010.
“Just as it would be irresponsible to withdraw support too soon, it would also be irresponsible to allow our future borrowing and debt to rise unchecked,” the chancellor said.
The tax increases are set to begin once the economy has recovered from the pandemic, Mr. Sunak said. The independent 
Still, the rise in tax rates would have been anathema under Conservatives at any other time.
“Make no mistake, this proposed increase in the main rate of corporation tax is a big reversal of decades of policy direction and a significant risk,” said Paul Johnson, the director of the Institute for Fiscal Studies in London. It will make Britain’s effective tax rate relatively high, he added.
The Treasury will also extract additional tax revenue by freezing personal income tax allowances from 2022, a measure that will push more people into higher tax brackets.
The moves were supported by the Resolution Foundation, a British think tank focused on living standards. It said the tax increases were “sensible both in terms of the timing, with revenues raised once the recovery has been secured, and who pays them — high-income households and profitable firms.” But given the two-year delay, the group questioned whether they would actually take effect.
At the same time, Mr. Sunak announced a “super deduction” for business investment. For two years, companies can reduce their tax bill by 130 percent of the amount spent on investment. The move is expected to substantially increase business investment in Britain, which has been sluggish since the 2016 Brexit referendum. It will raise business investment 10 percent in the fiscal year that starts in April 2022, the Office for Budget Responsibility said on Wednesday, but most of the increase will come from bringing forward investment from future years.
Britain’s economy will still face a number of short- and long-term challenges. The Office for Budget Responsibility forecast that the unemployment rate, currently 5 percent, will peak at 6.5 percent this year (lower than previous forecasts) when the furlough program ends. So far, job losses have 
Mr. Sunak said he also wanted this budget to lay “the foundations of our future economy.” And some of the measures have been designed to meet the government’s commitment to “level up” the economy to reduce regional inequality and revitalize the post-Brexit economy. Since Britain left the European Union’s single market and customs union in January, British 
The plans include a second office for the Treasury department in Darlington, in northeast England, and a national infrastructure bank to be set up in Leeds, also in the north, to finance projects to help the government meet its goal of making Britain a net-zero carbon emitter by 2050.
Eight new so-called 