
Donald Trump is exiting office with a final outburst of constitutional contempt. Like a Borgia pope trading indulgences as quid pro quos with his corrupt cardinals, Mr. Trump on Wednesday used one of the most sweeping powers of the presidency to 
The pardon of Mr. Bannon, his former chief strategist, encapsulates the most repugnant aspects of Mr. Trump’s misuse of the pardon power: cronyism, criminality and cultivation of his far-right base. One of us is an originalist Republican and the other a living-Constitution Democrat, but we both think pardons like that of Mr. Bannon may be unconstitutional.
And as with previous actions for Roger Stone, Paul Manafort and Michael Flynn, the new pardon of Mr. Bannon is both corrupt and a possible obstruction of justice, as he might otherwise have turned against the former president in a potential criminal, civil or impeachment proceeding. Mr. Bannon has been a witness to Mr. Trump’s activities for years, and the two were reportedly in communication in the run-up to Mr. Trump’s incitement of the Jan. 6 insurrection.
The Bannon pardon is also red meat for the extreme right, similar to those that preceded it for Sheriff Joe Arpaio, Dinesh D’Souza, ex-U.S. military war criminals, Blackwater mercenaries and the like. They appear designed to excite Mr. Trump’s base, which is no minor consideration when he is speculating about forming a new political party.
The corrupt politicians Mr. Trump rewarded included three former Republican members of the House and Kwame Kilpatrick, a Democrat and former Detroit mayor. Another individual, the disgraced (and twice convicted) megadonor Elliot Broidy, had financial and political ties to Mr. Trump. Like Mr. Bannon, might Mr. Broidy also have incriminating information Mr. Trump does not want revealed? About 20 years ago, President Bill Clinton’s pardon of the tax cheat Marc Rich set off a bipartisan 
Presidential pardon power is extraordinary, but it is not limitless. For the past 25 years, the Supreme Court has been reading federal grants of power like the Commerce Clause and the Necessary and Proper Clause more narrowly than at any time since 1937. The court should be just as strict in giving the pardon power only its original public meaning.
Mr. Trump did not have the constitutional power to obstruct justice by failing to faithfully execute the law through pardons of associates like Mr. Bannon, who could potentially testify against him. The Constitution and its amendments work like a giant power of attorney by which the founding generation, and their successors, We the People, have delegated certain limited and enumerated powers to the president, Congress, the federal courts and the states. The president is empowered to take care that the laws be faithfully executed and not to break them.
As Edward Coke famously argued in Dr. Bonham’s Case in 1610, no one can be a judge in his own cause. This has been a bedrock principle of Anglo-American law for more than 400 years — one that Mr. Trump sought to shatter by pardoning people who might testify against him. The Constitution does not authorize that, and we believe the courts should reject such pardons, as the Department of Justice did when it addressed the question of presidential self-pardons at the end of the Nixon administration.
Recent decisions of the Supreme Court of Britain have held that monarchal prerogatives akin to the pardon power must yield to modern practice. In 2017, the court held that Queen Elizabeth II’s executive power did not allow her to effectuate Brexit by nullifying the treaties by which Britain had joined the European Union — even though traditionally monarchs (and U.S. presidents) have unilaterally abrogated treaties. Then in 2019, the British Supreme Court held that she had acted unlawfully when she attempted to exercise another of her powers by proroguing, or temporarily suspending, a session of Parliament at the request of the prime minister to advance Brexit.
These are just the latest examples of how ancient powers of English monarchs have all been subjected to the rule of law gradually in the past 400 years. Presidential power, too, has been tamed over the past 230 years by the adoption of the two-term limit for presidents, by key statutes like the Administrative Procedure Act and the Impoundment Control Act and, since the Youngstown Steel case in 1952, by vigorous judicial review.
One final originalist limitation on the president’s pardon power that we will watch for when we get the full documentation involves specificity. The original public meaning of the pardon power was that hazy or overbroad pardons are not constitutional, as Aaron Rappaport, a professor at the University of California, Hastings Law, has noted. William Blackstone said in 1769 that general words have “a very imperfect effect in pardons. A pardon of all felonies will not pardon a conviction … (for it is presumed the King knew not of those proceedings,) but the conviction … must be particularly mentioned.”
To be sure, when President Gerald Ford granted a sweeping 
The pardon power is a relic of the royal English prerogative, which, if un-cabined, could be used as a wrecking ball of both our democracy and the rule of law. We believe that Mr. Trump’s midnight pardons of Mr. Bannon and his ilk are unconstitutional and, if reviewed by courts, should be set aside.