
Good morning.
We’re covering 
As 
Though the country’s death toll has long been the worst in Europe, a fast-spreading variant has propelled Britain’s daily fatality rates to levels not seen since April. Per capita, Britain’s death rate has been the worst in the world over the last week. So far, one in eight adults in the country had received the first of the two required vaccine doses.
Health experts in the United States worry that new variants of the virus could cause a 
Here are 
France and Britain are among the many countries considering 
President Biden announced that his administration was nearing a deal with Pfizer and Moderna 
Shopkeepers in several cities across the Netherlands boarded up windows and sent employees home early, as the country braced for 
Hong Kong’s first virus lockdown, in a working-class neighborhood, raised questions 
As vaccine production falls behind schedule and the European Union lags in inoculating people, Brussels and London are 
The E.U., stung by its slow progress on vaccinations, threatened this week to tighten rules on shipping Belgian-made shots to Britain, while British lawmakers have accused their European counterparts of a blackmail campaign that could embitter relations for a generation.
The feuding holds echoes of the dark, early days of the pandemic, when scores of countries banned or restricted the export of protective equipment and medical devices. Nearly a year later, that spirit of protectionism continues: Not only are vaccine supplies too scarce for many poorer countries to begin inoculations, but wealthy countries also cannot figure out how to share the available doses among themselves.
In their 
White House officials said Mr. Biden also confronted the Kremlin leader over the poisoning of the Russian opposition leader Aleksei Navalny and the hacking of computer networks in the United States. The call was, in essence, the opening act of what promises to be a deeply adversarial relationship.
Sustainability in the fashion industry was once the focus of only a handful of designers, like Stella McCartney and outdoor gear companies like Patagonia. But brands everywhere are now working to improve a supply chain criticized for contributing to landfills and causing pollution.
We looked at 
Kevin: It’s hard to remember now, but it was just unlike anything that had ever happened before — that this person who is a very public figure would personally insult people. So we thought that a simple list might be compelling. It was much shorter, obviously, five years ago, but it was still substantial.
Depending on how you count, it is somewhere between 6,000 and 10,000.
We were relatively conservative about whether something was an insult or just an opinion. Also, the insult’s target needed to be clear.
When we started the list, it had less gravity to it. Now that he’s been barred from Twitter, and there was a deadly attack on the Capitol that was not unrelated to his tweets, it’s more serious than when we started. The project doesn’t really bring me any joy.
He found new people to insult at a remarkably linear rate. He found new things to insult about once every three days or so, for years. He is also very good at branding. People still say “Crooked Hillary” or “the failing New York Times.” And I can still find myself being surprised at how nasty some of them are.
That’s it for today’s briefing. Thanks for joining me.
— Natasha
• We’re listening to “