
Good morning.
We’re covering competition over 
For months, wealthy countries have been 
Stung by its slow progress on vaccinations, the E.U. threatened to tighten rules on shipments to Britain of shots made in Belgium. British lawmakers denounced the move as a blackmail campaign. 
The squabbling could lead to longer waits for vaccines for poorer nations. The core of the problem is production delays at Belgian factories that make the Pfizer-BioNTech shots and the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccines. The French drugmaker Sanofi said that it would
Here are 
Hospitals and nursing homes that have reused scarce protective equipment appear to have helped spread a different set of germs: 
Britain tightened its international travel restrictions and will now require its citizens arriving from any of 22 high-risk countries to 
Moscow’s 
Thailand will aim to vaccinate 19 million people in a first phase of inoculations starting on Feb. 14, the prime minister said on Wednesday, 
President Biden signed a package of executive orders elevating climate change across the federal government as part of a plan to 
The president ordered a pause in new oil and natural gas leases on public lands and offshore waters to the extent possible, and a review of all existing fossil fuel leases. Tax subsidies to oil, coal and gas companies will be overhauled.
“In my view, we’ve already waited too long to deal with this climate crisis. We can’t wait any longer,” said Mr. Biden. “We see it with our own eyes. We feel it. We know it in our bones. And it’s time to act.”
With the Olympics now just six months away, insurers are saying they face “mind-blowingly” large cancellation losses if the Summer Games do not take place as scheduled, 
Much of Japan is now under a state of emergency in the third wave of its coronavirus outbreak. Organizers last week 
Event insurers have had a tough year as a result of the pandemic, but canceling the Olympics would be “by far the largest” loss in the industry, one brokerage director said.
A song by Tan Weiwei, a Chinese pop star, tackles one of the country’s silent epidemics: domestic violence. “Xiao Juan,” the Chinese equivalent of names like Jane Doe given to unidentified victims of crimes, 
Since the release of the song, which has references to gruesome details from well-known abuse cases, women have shared their own stories of abuse on social media platforms. “She put these extreme stories in front of you,” said Feng Yuan, a professor at Shantou University. “You cannot avoid them; you have to look directly at them.”
I like to see acclaim and I like to see people rewarded, and if it means something to them, that’s nice. But I also want to see a bit of humility and fun. I think they’ve got to mix it up and laugh at themselves a little bit. “Thank you, what a lovely occasion, this is dedicated to my gran” — that’s all fine. It’s when someone takes the stage, like everyone in the world has asked them for their help to change humanity. And they take their glasses out and go: “A few things need to be said, and I’m the person to say them. Thank God I’m here.”
The experience of being in the room during the Oscars is strikingly different from the experience of watching it on television. Part of my heart wants to go back to it being a dinner with just the nominees and the presenters. [Or] a Zoom broadcast. [With the Emmys this year] there was an intimacy to seeing people as they truly are in their homes and who they chose to be with and how they chose to be with them. That was really exciting.
Let’s face it. The subtext of every Oscar night is, Wow, look how much better our lives are than yours. Hollywood should give up on the idea that everyone aspires to be us. These aren’t glamorous times and yet we keep acting like we’re taking our cues from Norma Desmond. Maybe this year instead of black tie they should tone it down to office casual. And do we really still need a red carpet? Can these people not stand on a sidewalk now?
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Melina