
Good morning.
We’re covering the E.U.’s 
Europe’s coronavirus vaccination woes snowballed yesterday as Spain became the first country to partly suspend immunizations 
Though the European Union is flush with cash and influence, it has found itself behind Britain and the United States, as well as other nations like Israel, Canada and the United Arab Emirates, in trying to secure enough doses for its people, even as many countries, particularly poorer ones, struggle to obtain any at all.
In response to the drugmaker AstraZeneca’s announcement that it would slash deliveries of its vaccine by 60 percent because of production shortfalls, the E.U. urged the company to supply it with doses from British plants, 
Here are 
Hospitals and nursing homes that have reused scarce protective equipment appear to have helped spread a different set of germs: 
Moscow’s 
Hundreds of survivors of the Holocaust are set to be 
South Africa has given emergency approval to the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine and is reviewing applications from rival manufacturers.
President Biden signed a sweeping series of 
Mr. Biden said his directives would reserve 30 percent of federal land and water for conservation purposes, make climate policy central to national security decisions and build out a network of electric-car charging stations nationwide.
He argued that these steps, rather than resulting in job losses, would instead create work in building the necessary wind and solar infrastructure. Using the government’s purchasing power to buy zero-emissions vehicles, Mr. Biden said, would help speed the transition away from gasoline-powered cars and ultimately lead to “one million new jobs in the American automobile industry.”
Thousands of outraged women, teenagers and allies 
Though the decision had been made in October by the Constitutional Tribunal, 
Poland already had one of Europe’s most restrictive abortion laws, with the procedure legal in only three instances: fetal abnormalities, pregnancies resulting from rape or incest, and threats to a woman’s life. The latter two remain legal.
Forty years ago, Louis Beam, above, a former grand dragon of the Texas Knights of the Ku Klux Klan, had the idea of using the internet to drive a movement.
The strategies that he and his contemporaries set in motion persist to this day — and law enforcement and the general public are still battling his vision for white nationalism on platforms like Gab, 8chan and Parler. 
To add excitement to the [best-picture category], I propose the Oscars adopt a Miss Universe type of finale. … And maybe we add a clause that if it turns out one of the producers is a rapist, then they lose [the award] and the runner-up gets to be the best-picture winner for that year.
The experience of being in the room during the Oscars is strikingly different from the experience of watching it on television. Part of my heart wants to go back to it being a dinner with just the nominees and the presenters. [Or] a Zoom broadcast. [With the Emmys this year] there was an intimacy to seeing people as they truly are in their homes and who they chose to be with and how they chose to be with them. That was really exciting.
Let’s face it. The subtext of every Oscar night is, Wow, look how much better our lives are than yours. Hollywood should give up on the idea that everyone aspires to be us. Maybe this year instead of black tie they should tone it down to office casual. And do we really still need a red carpet? Can these people not stand on a sidewalk now?
That’s it for this briefing. See you Friday.
— Natasha