
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering the push to 
Momentum to impeach President Trump yet again continues to mount — even though it would have almost no effect on how long he remains in office. His term expires 11 days from now, and 
But the impeachment debate is still highly consequential. The Senate has the power both to remove Trump from office and to prevent him from holding any future office, potentially altering the future of American politics. 
The House may vote as soon as Tuesday on 
(There’s more on the Capitol siege in our Back Story below.)
Apple, Google and Amazon have 
Senator Pat Toomey of Pennsylvania became 
Dozens of people were 
Stripped of Twitter, Mr. Trump 
Scientists continue to discover 
The 
The coronavirus has evolved as it made its way across the world, as any virus is expected to do. But experts have been startled by the pace at which significant new variants have emerged, adding urgency to the race between the world’s best defenses — vaccinations, lockdowns and social distancing — and an aggressive, ever-changing foe.
Here are the 
The infectious disease expert Dr. Anthony Fauci said he believed that 
Not one person has been found to have contracted the coronavirus at any of 
Queen Elizabeth II and her husband, Prince Philip, 
Putting aside his misgivings, our correspondent in Russia opted to take the Sputnik V vaccine. 
Donald Trump, Viktor Orban, Boris Johnson: Throughout the world, a readiness to 
Lying in politics is nothing new, of course. But these reality-redefining falsehoods put democracy at risk and may place people in danger.
Even Britain, regarded as a bastion of democracy, has fallen prey to the scourge, voting in 2016 to leave the European Union after untrue 
And in Hungary, the populist leader Mr. Orban has cast the Jewish financier and philanthropist George Soros as 
Tim Berners-Lee, above, who helped create the World Wide Web three decades ago, believes the online world has gone astray: Too much power and too much personal data reside with tech giants like Google and Facebook, which have in turn become surveillance platforms and gatekeepers of innovation, he says.
But we still have the chance to remake our digital world. 
That’s it for this briefing. See you on Tuesday.
— Natasha