
President Biden has unveiled a flurry of actions aimed at unwinding much of the Trump administration’s agenda. But on his predecessor’s signature legislative accomplishment — the huge 2017 tax cut — Mr. Biden is treading much more gingerly.
On the eve of President Biden’s inauguration, the Federal Housing Finance Agency made 
The change in administration could bring powerful new partners. The Treasury secretary nominee Janet Yellen said that she would appoint “someone at a very senior level” to create a hub in the Treasury focused on climate change and financial system risks. Many of Mr. Biden’s other nominees 
“We have one of those rare moments of hope,” said Tim Mohin of the carbon accounting start-up Persefoni, who has seen climate risks go from a fringe notion to mainstream over 30 years working on sustainability in government and at companies like Apple and Intel. “There is no reason to go slow.”
As the S.E.C. considers Nasdaq’s proposal to 
“We believe it is critical not just for us, but for all our nation’s leading companies to compose their boards in a manner that values diversity and inclusion as key drivers of value and productivity,” wrote 
The 
The S.E.C. is expected to make a decision in the coming weeks. You can read all of the comments it has received 
Trading patterns suggest that credit analysts leak news of ratings changes to institutional investors, perhaps in hope of getting a job in the future. (
During financial crises, letting companies sell assets in forced fire sales may be better than bailing them out. (
Access to mobile banking helps reduce rural poverty, via remittances from urban relatives, more effectively than microfinance programs. (
The National Rifle Association filed for bankruptcy in a federal court in Dallas last week, in what legal experts see as an effort to circumvent regulators in New York, who are seeking to shutter the group amid claims of mismanagement and corruption. Ultimately, the N.R.A. wants to emerge from bankruptcy with gun-friendly Texas as its new legal domicile. This won’t be easy, legal experts 
British stocks have had a tough run for years. But the FTSE 100 index has outpaced the S&P 500 and the Stoxx Europe 600 index in recent weeks. Some analysts have even anointed British stocks as their favorite trade, suggesting that years of underperformance might be coming to an end.
It’s surprising because the country’s exit from the European Union has led to so much red tape that industries from fishing to the arts are pleading for government help. And the country is under a strict lockdown that could last until the spring, which may tip the economy into a double-dip recession.
Investors see the situation differently. Vaccinations are underway and the market is benefiting from the move into value stocks, companies that are relatively cheap in cyclical sectors such as finance and energy. Britain’s indexes have a large share of these.
And, crucially, there is the country’s post-Brexit trade deal with the E.U. It may have increased trade barriers and largely ignored the service industry, but at least it exists. For now, that’s lifted a cloud of uncertainty.
Ant Group’s valuation is likely to fall by more than half after Chinese regulators issued guidelines to curb its market power. (
The former Credit Suisse C.E.O. Brady Dougan is joining Wall Street’s rush to create exchange-traded funds that invest in SPACs. (
A SPAC founded by David Crane, the former C.E.O. of NRG Energy, is set to acquire EVgo, an electric-vehicle charging network, at a $2.6 billion valuation. (
President Biden’s potential pick for comptroller of the currency has stirred opposition from progressives — and the likely new chairman of the Senate Banking Committee. (
Mr. Biden ordered a sweeping assessment of U.S. intelligence about Russia’s role in a huge computer hack. (
A federal judge declined to force Amazon to resume hosting Parler, the conservative social network, after cutting off services following the Capitol riot. (
Google threatened to suspend its search engine in Australia as the country weighs a law that would force it to pay news publishers. (
“Biden Has a Once-in-a-Century Chance to Fix Capitalism” (
Elon Musk tweeted that he would award $100 million to whoever can create the best carbon-capture technology. (
The pandemic continues to hit the art and music industries as 
We’d like your feedback! Please email thoughts and suggestions to 