
PARIS — It should have been Europe’s finest hour. Battered by multiple waves of Covid-19, lockdowns and recession, the European Union had found a noble way to prove its raison d’être: by making the vaccines equally available to its 27 member states, rich or poor, small or powerful, through an unprecedented joint procurement initiative led by Brussels.
The vaccines would be doubly effective. They would protect the health of 450 million residents, allowing normal economic activity to resume, and they would strengthen the unity of the bloc. After the adoption of a 
If only. Instead the process has descended 
What went wrong? Several factors seem obvious. 
In the freshly post-Brexit world, this was an incendiary move. After widespread criticism, and furious phone calls from the prime ministers of Britain and Ireland, the decision was 
The bloc’s deliberative approach is another factor. Usually, member states are responsible for their own public health policies. But the pandemic unexpectedly put Brussels in the driver’s seat: The negotiation of contracts with the pharmaceutical industry, on a continentwide scale, is a new, complex experiment.
Last June the European Commission took over from an alliance of four countries — Germany, France, Italy and the Netherlands — that approached potential vaccine producers a month earlier with the aim of securing orders. While the British government could negotiate with companies by itself, the commission had to coordinate among all its member states. Clearly, that slowed things down.
But that alone does not explain the pace of the negotiations, which led to Brussels signing a contract with AstraZeneca two months later than Britain did. Some have blamed the delay on the bloc’s insistence on obtaining lower prices. Prime Minister 
The real reason goes deeper. It lies in a risk-averse European culture marked, in several countries, by skepticism about vaccines. As a safeguard against public backlash, Europe’s leaders sought to secure as many guarantees as possible. Tellingly, one of the most difficult points in the negotiations with vaccine manufacturers was the degree of liability the bloc wanted them to accept if anything went wrong. A source close to President Emmanuel Macron of France told me the bloc had been concerned about combining speed with security guarantees — two imperatives that, unfortunately, seldom go well together.
You could make the case that to regain “
For one, it might allow Prime Minister Boris Johnson of Britain, who’s eager to erase 
Even worse was the impression last week that Europe was practicing vaccine nationalism, a depressing reversal of its commitment to openness. Weren’t the vaccines supposed to be a global common good? Europe was one of the strongest promoters of the 
This pandemic is the first global crisis since World War II in which American leadership has been absent. Europe, united and purposeful, could have filled the vacuum — but so far the opportunity has been badly missed. It must learn from the experience.
Sylvie Kauffmann (