
In November, a BBC reporter shouted a question at President-elect Joe Biden. He responded, “The BBC? I’m Irish” before flashing a huge smile and disappearing through a doorway. 
President Biden’s Irishness is important to him: He likes to quote 
Mr. Biden enjoys his Irishness with a light touch, a twinkle in his eye. Is that twinkle in every Irish person’s eye? I grew up in Ireland and sometimes when I speak, Americans get a faraway look and I can tell they’re not hearing a word I say. They are just dreamily drifting along on my brogue, probably thinking I’m some kind of magical and unserious creature. I’m fine with that.
But there is passed-down pain in the Irish experience, which can, but rarely does, act as a useful guide. Mr. Trump surrounded himself with Irish-Americans, for example, men like former Vice President 
They 
Their departure from power is no loss to the world or to Ireland. The country now stands to benefit from a friendly American leader. Micheal Martin, Ireland’s prime minister, spoke of the longstanding tradition of United States presidents visiting Ireland, 
Mr. Biden seems glad to wield that power. 
It’s gratifying to see, certainly. But what my Irishness leads me to is the old Ireland, the truly dark and terrifying place that Mr. Biden’s forefathers fled from. Who is their equivalent now? And can the president see them for what they are and act accordingly?
The parallels between Ireland in the 1800s, when Mr. Biden’s forefathers left, and, say, Syria or South Sudan today are horribly apt. The Syrian people, brave and revolutionary, simply needed a fair system of government and, later, a safe place to recover and restart their lives. But Americans have looked away. The South Sudanese, reeling from brutal colonization, continue to struggle through ethnic division and civil war. Surely too in Juba, South Sudan’s capital, there are poets and musicians who dream of the rhyme of hope and history, if only we stopped to listen.
The early signs are promising. During his campaign, Mr. Biden 
Ireland, sadly, has not learned the lessons of its past. It, too, has 
So what kind of Irishman will Mr. Biden be? He steps into power when the 
The worst parts of Irish history are again unfolding across the world, and many millions of people are suffering. On behalf on his ancestors, will President Biden show up for refugees?
Maeve Higgins (