
LONDON — When the coronavirus 
Unshackled from offices — many for the first time in their working lives — city dwellers throughout Europe began to leave, some to avoid the virus but others to to escape cramped and pricey apartments and to connect more with the natural world.
Now, nearly a year after the first lockdowns and with months more of restrictions looming, the easy assumption that most of the coronavirus exiles would naturally return once the virus was tamed is being questioned. In the reverse of the old song, the question now is not 
For city planners and urban design experts, that means beginning to grapple with problems that have long plagued many of these cities — housing affordability, safe transportation and access to green space — but that have grown more urgent because of the pandemic.
More broadly, cities will have to address new desires about connecting with nature and “reconnecting with life,” said Philipp Rode, the executive director of LSE Cities, a research center at the London School of Economics.
A similar urban exodus has been seen in the United States during the pandemic, with 
“Broadly speaking, place loyalty in Europe is significantly higher than in the U.S.,” Dr. Rode said, pointing to past studies showing that even among cities in economic decline, those in Europe suffered relatively less population loss. “A lot of these places have very deep histories, very deep culture.”
Nevertheless, many European cities are introducing features like pedestrian and cycle-friendly commuting options and expanded green spaces. Milan, 
London officials began a “Streetspace” project last year, creating temporary bike lanes and widening pedestrian zones as commuters tried to avoid the dangers of crowded subways and buses. Paris and Barcelona have taken similar steps.
Changes like these, which 
But Léan Doody, who leads the integrated cities and planning network for Europe for Arup, is optimistic about the changes. She said that although the pandemic had highlighted some of the deeper problems with urban life, it could prompt a push for improvement.
“There is an opportunity” as the pandemic fades from view, to “introduce new behaviors,” she said.
“Perhaps city authorities, transport authorities and employers could think about policies to make a vision of the future that actually works for everyone,” she said.
Quantifying precisely how many people have left Europe’s cities is difficult because the pandemic has complicated data collection. But a
However, London could be an outlier. A survey from Arup found that some 41 percent of Londoners had moved out of the city at some point in the pandemic, compared with around 10 percent in Madrid, Milan and Berlin and 20 percent in Paris. The real estate company Century 21 
Property reports revealed 
Unaffordable housing was a pain point in many European cities even before the pandemic, which 
Property prices in Dublin exploded in recent years after a housing-market collapse in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis; a steep drop in supply met with overwhelming demand, worsened by 
Ms. Doody said plans by the Irish government to 
Brendan McLoughlin, 29, a business analyst for Ireland’s national postal service, is among many whose job will remain at least partially remote; he plans to relocate from shared accommodation in Dublin to his own house in a port town north of the city this summer.
“I think it’s forced this re-evaluation of what matters in your setting and your home life,” he said.
There is a strong view among social scientists and economists that the pandemic has only accelerated changes already underway in cities, deepening a so-called “doughnut effect” in which high prices drive residents to the outskirts and turbocharging a formerly meandering trend toward remote work.
But the more rapid shifts have focused the attention of the urban authorities, who are increasingly addressing longstanding complaints about noise, air pollution, cramped apartments and stratospheric rents.
In Paris, which was 
When the pandemic created a new urgency, Paris quickly turned the Rue de Rivoli, a main thoroughfare, into a multilane biking highway, cut traffic near schools to improve air quality and turned parking spaces into extended cafe seating. The city is now vowing to make some of its 
But finding the political will for lasting change will be a challenge, Dr. Rode said, and would depend to a great extent on the level of public engagement and acceptance.
Malcolm Smith, an urban design fellow with Arup, 
“It has shone a light on the importance of developing cities in smaller modules, with essential services concentrated around community hubs,” 
Aurelien Breeden