
His administration plans to 
But his plan is colliding with a sobering reality: Supplies will be scarce for the next several months. Trump administration officials clarified that the existing stockpile 
“The honest truth is this, things will get worse before they get better,” Mr. Biden said. “And the policy changes we are going to be making, they’re going to take time to show up in the Covid statistics.”
The shortage is already bearing down on New York City, once the center of the epidemic. Mayor Bill de Blasio said 
It took more than nine months for the world to reach one million coronavirus related deaths in late September. Three months later, the virus has 
It is the same virus, but several variants that are believed to be more contagious are now circulating around the world. One of the variants is 
That same variant is projected to become 
The Capitol Police are investigating 
Inspectors general from a range of federal agencies also opened 
Officials are preparing for 
His move 
While plans are in flux, Mr. Trump, who has kept a low profile since a mob of his supporters attacked the Capitol on Jan. 6, hopes to depart to the blare of a military band, with a red carpet and military honors, those briefed on the planning said.
Ms. James said her office would not let the N.R.A. “use this or any other tactic to evade accountability.”
“We are under siege,” said Mr. Wine, above, a musician-turned-lawmaker whose real name is Robert Kyagulanyi. He described the election as marred by “fraud and violence.”
The incident took place as the country’s electoral commission released partial results of the general election that showed the incumbent president of 35 years, Yoweri Museveni, in the lead. Mr. Wine’s lawyer said the siege effectively constituted house arrest.
Organizers postponed the Tokyo Olympic Games for one year last March. But as coronavirus cases rise throughout Japan and around the world, officials both in Tokyo and with the I.O.C. have begun to acknowledge that 
Devastated by the pandemic, the tourism industry has become part of 
Merlina, one of the resident birds at the Tower of London, 
The entanglement of the ravens’ destinies with the nation’s dual crises — the pandemic and Brexit — might have been foreseen last August when the Tower of London closed to visitors, leaving the ravens restless without human contact (or snacks).
Whether it’s missing ravens or psychics, people are looking for signs and answers to make sense of the world:
In recent decades, the American beer industry has pushed beer to attention-grabbing extremes. But to draw in new customers beyond the bitters-lovers and the sour-obsessed, hundreds of brewers are aiming for mainstream appeal with 
For something a bit more simple, our wine critic, Eric Asimov, 
Frank Miller, a retired civil engineer, needed to play catch. A former baseball player in high school and college, he wandered his house in Dallas practicing the grips for a slider, curve and cutter after reading a book about pitching. So his wife, Alice, put out a call on social media: Does anybody want to play catch with my 74-year-old husband?
The response showed them 
“Isn’t baseball beautiful?” Mr. Miller said at the end of the session. “It’s a piece of art, really.”
Have a harmonious weekend.