
The word “racism” actually came into widespread use in English in reference to Nazi attitudes toward Jewish people. Being the victim of prejudice, however, does not inoculate us from our own prejudices. Edward Augustus Freeman, who went on to be Regius professor of history at Oxford, wrote, while visiting America in 1881, that his interlocutors generally agreed with his proposal that “this would be a grand land if only every Irishman would kill a Negro and be hanged for it.” Yet WASP bigotry toward the Irish immigrants didn’t save them from bigotry toward Black people. (Nor, conversely, did suffering from anti-Black animus prevent the likes of Frederick Douglass from disparaging Irish-Americans.) I’ve heard Africans complain about being subject to racism from Europeans and Americans while denigrating Africans of certain other ethnic groups in ways that sound awfully like racism. Consider, for that matter, the tensions that have lately arisen between Asian-Americans and Black Americans. “Suffering is partial, shortsighted and self-absorbed,” the philosopher Olufemi O. Taiwo observes. “We shouldn’t have a politics that expects different: Oppression is not a prep school.”
Nor is displaying lovingkindness (as the King James Bible I grew up with often translated 
You, on the other hand, are not merely visiting, however long you stay in Melbourne. So far as I can see, you’ve got three choices. One is simply to tolerate your friends’ intolerance — though my sense is that this won’t work for you. Another is to conclude that these moral failings are an obstacle to friendship; friendship is a moralized relationship, after all, and taking certain values seriously can entail not condoning them in your friends. But at this point in your life, you’re clearly reluctant to lose longstanding, meaningful relationships.
That leaves you trying to scale a formidable wall. You’re in good company. The great rabbi and civil rights leader Abraham Heschel, who lost much of his family in the Holocaust, worried about the many people whose “moral sensitivity suffers a blackout when confronted with the Black man’s predicament”; he wanted each of us to be the sort of person who, like you, “resents other people’s injuries.” There can be 
Kwame Anthony Appiah teaches philosophy at N.Y.U. His books include “Cosmopolitanism,” “The Honor Code” and “The Lies That Bind: Rethinking Identity.” To submit a query: Send an email to ethicist@nytimes.com; or send mail to The Ethicist, The New York Times Magazine, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018. (Include a daytime phone number.)
 