
Speaking at the White House, Mr. Biden called 
“This makes Jim Crow look like Jim Eagle,” he said. “I mean, this is gigantic, what they’re trying to do. And it cannot be sustained.”
Mr. Biden was barraged with questions about his handling of the surge of migrants, especially children, at the U.S. border with Mexico. He insisted that officials in his government were doing everything they could to treat migrant children humanely, and he repeatedly blamed former President Donald Trump for the overcrowding in border facilities.
On foreign policy, Mr. Biden said that he 
During a question-and-answer session, Mr. Biden said it was his “expectation” that he would run for re-election in 2024, with Vice President Kamala Harris as his running mate.
We fact-checked his news conference 
That’s what President Biden said at his news conference, and with 130 million doses already administered, the 
California and Florida announced that more adults 
Separately, Pfizer 
In the European Union, bureaucratic inertia, strategic errors, a diffusion of responsibility and logistical problems have all 
Hit by a new wave of infections, India is 
But Britain’s quick rollout of coronavirus vaccines 
During a congressional hearing, Democrats accused the executives of allowing disinformation to run rampant, while Republicans focused on the barring of right-wing figures from the platforms, including former President Donald Trump.
Fully loaded with 20,000 containers, the ship “is a very heavy beached whale,” one expert said. So far, 
The move paves the way for a potential $4.2 billion industry, with millions of dollars in sales tax revenue reinvested in minority communities each year. Under the deal, deliveries of the drug would be allowed and permits given for 
Officials hope the measure, if approved, will help end years of racially disproportionate policing that resulted in Black and Hispanic people being arrested on low-level marijuana charges far more frequently than white people.
Public transit offers a relatively simple way for cities to lower their greenhouse gas emissions and improve air quality, but a year into the pandemic, a severe drop-off in riders 
“We are facing maybe the most important crisis in the public transit sector in different parts of the world,” one expert said. If commuters shun public transit for cars as their cities recover, it will have huge implications for air pollution and greenhouse gas emissions.
His strict observance of the Jewish sabbath means he cannot play from Friday night until the sun goes down on Saturday. The solution? Perhaps catching. Professional catchers are given regular days off during the week because of the physical and mental strain. Navigating his career will still be tricky, but Mr. Kligman’s coach 
“My goal is to become the first Shabbas observant player in Major League Baseball,” said Mr. Kligman, above during a game in Nevada.
As social networks crack down on hate speech, 
More than two dozen podcasts from white supremacists and pro-Nazi groups were found in a recent search. A Google spokeswoman said that the company did not want to “limit what people are able to find,” and that it only blocks content “in rare circumstances, largely guided by local law.”
“It seems like they’ve made a decision to embrace an audience that wants more offensive content rather than constrain that content for the sake of safety and respect,” ” said Jessica Fjeld, the assistant director of the Cyberlaw Clinic at Harvard.
Sophia, above, a robot known for interviewing Germany’s chancellor and performing on “The Tonight Show,” has made 
The sale was the latest in the frenzied market for ownership rights to digital art called 
Sophia’s artwork outsold the 
Have a creative evening.