
Good morning.
We’re covering the latest in
Late on Tuesday night, the House of Representatives 
Senator Mitch McConnell believes 
For daily updates, sign up for our 
More people 
But officials warn that the worst is yet to come, as a recent explosion in new coronavirus infections translates into more hospitalizations and more deaths. An estimated one in 30 people in London is currently infected, and hospitals are on the verge of being overwhelmed, even as the authorities struggle to convince the public of the moment’s urgency.
Prime Minister Boris Johnson met with his cabinet on Tuesday to discuss ways to tighten what are already 
Here are 
The Trump administration recommended 
The populist Italian party Five Star Movement, which has long spread 
Businesses like Henkel, a big German chemical company, are 
The U.S. will 
A 
About
Relics from the Horti Lamiana, the favorite hideaway of ancient Rome’s most infamous tyrant, have been 
The dig, carried out beneath the rubble of a condemned 19th-century apartment complex, yielded such treasures as gems, coins, cameo glass, a theater mask, above, and bones of peacocks, deer, lions, bears and ostriches.
If President Trump is impeached in the House and subsequently convicted by a two-thirds vote in the Senate and removed from office, the Senate could then vote to bar him from ever holding office again.
The Constitution says that the Senate, after voting to convict an impeached president, can consider “disqualification to hold and enjoy any office of honor, trust or profit under the United States.”
This would be determined by a second vote, requiring only a simple majority of senators to disqualify him from holding office in the future.
Mr. Trump, who is said to be contemplating another run for president in 2024, has just a week left in office. It’s an impeachment timeline that is tight, but not impossible. Constitutional scholars say that a Senate trial and a vote for disqualification could happen after he leaves on Jan. 20.
Because of the stakes and the lack of a precedent for disqualifying a president from future office, the matter would probably go before the Supreme Court.
That’s all for today. Wishing you a peaceful and productive Wednesday.
— Natasha