
Good morning.
We’re covering the E.U.’s authorization of the
The vaccine can be stored in regular refrigerators for up to three months and requires only one shot. It is the fourth to be approved by the E.U.’s regulatory agency. Three more vaccines — Novavax, CureVac and Sputnik V — are undergoing a rolling review, a preliminary step that could lead to approval.
The bloc also said on Thursday that it would extend until June a mechanism that lets member states block the export of vaccines made within the E.U. if the manufacturers have not filled all their orders at home.
Here are the 
Amid 
Coronavirus cases in Germany are 
France will relax 
Denmark, Iceland and Norway 
President Biden signed the $1.9 trillion stimulus bill, 
In his first prime-time televised appearance since taking office, Mr. Biden directed states to make all adult Americans eligible to be vaccinated by no later than May 1, and he expressed hope for a return to relatively normal life by the Fourth of July.
He warned, however, that a return to normal this summer would require the public to continue to wear masks, maintain social distance and sign up for shots.
Dozens of countries hope to 
But Indigenous communities, which have successfully protected nature for generations by limiting their exploitation of resources, won’t be voting on the deal, even though several scientific studies show that nature is healthier on the lands that they manage or own. Indigenous-managed lands in Brazil, Canada and Australia have at least as much biodiversity as lands set aside for conservation by federal and other governments.
Historically, conservation efforts have had a troubled record of forcing people off their land. Now, Indigenous leaders view the global push with a mixture of hope and worry.
Above, the Brixton neighborhood in London. For Black and mixed-race Britons, Meghan Markle’s description of her family troubles in her bombshell interview with Oprah Winfrey this week 
“There is, in Britain, a very big silence around race that, in fact, there isn’t in the United States,” said one professor of postcolonial studies at the University of Cambridge. “The idea that a talk-show host would sit down with a royal couple or anyone and discuss race at length — that’s not actually imaginable in the U.K.”
A digital image — known as an NFT — by the artist Beeple 
Last month, someone bought an animated GIF of a 
It may not make sense to everyone, and it has elements of a financial bubble. It mostly comes down to very expensive bragging rights, as well as the potential of reselling the works for more money.
These rights are known as NFTs, short for “nonfungible tokens.” “It seems crazy to do that for something purely digital that can be easily copied and shared across the internet,” Erin Griffith, a Times tech reporter who has 
The technology has made it easier for artists, musicians and sports franchises to make money from digital goods. The N.B.A. recently introduced 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next week, when we’ll be launching our redesign.
— Natasha