
Germany, France and Italy became the latest countries to suspend use of 
Evidence that the vaccine causes clots 
Thailand said it would resume distribution of the AstraZeneca vaccine on Tuesday, with Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha among the first to receive it.
Here are 
Prime Minister 
Officials are investigating police tactics at the event, which had been declared unlawful because of coronavirus restrictions. The vigil honored Sarah Everard, 33, whose killing touched off a national outcry over misogyny and violence. A Metropolitan Police officer has been 
Later this week, Parliament is set to debate legislation that would grant the police more powers to control protests. Mr. Johnson said the bill would also increase sentences for rape and tackle domestic violence.
President Biden and Democrats
In remarks on Monday afternoon, Mr. Biden heralded his administration’s 
China’s ability to mass-produce and distribute vaccines has 
A survey of nearly 50,000 people in eight countries found that 
Hundreds of people spending spring break in the Miami area 
The E.U. is taking 
In a prelude to 
The Biden administration tried to restart discussions with North Korea over 
Above, the 
The Vatican said that Catholic priests 
The authorities in Myanmar 
Aleksei Navalny, the Russian opposition leader, said in an Instagram post that he was well and had not been subject to violence, but 
Usually it’s foreigners who cavort in the winter at Siberia’s Lake Baikal, the world’s deepest lake. But with international tourism shut down, 
“This season is like no other — no one expected there to be such a crush, such a tourist boom,” said the director of a history museum in the area.
Podcast listening numbers in Britain have surged — nearly a fifth of the British adult population now regularly listen to podcasts.
In an attempt to escape the BBC’s tight grip over Britain’s audio industry, 
The BBC sees its role as protecting the British audio industry from the undue influence of other large companies.
“There’s a the danger of tech giants shaping a U.K. radio industry,” said Jonathan Wall, who runs the BBC Sounds audio app. “We think they have a huge part to play, but we don’t think they can solely shape a successful U.K. audio industry.”
The BBC’s own huge budget gives the broadcaster outsize influence on what gets produced in Britain. “We have such a rich legacy of production companies who have basically lived feast to famine predicated on how many BBC commissioning rounds they win,” said Jake Warren, the founder of 
Writing on Medium, Nick Hilton, the founder of the independent British podcasting company Podot, 
Netflix’s “Mank” 
Beyoncé became the female artist with the most Grammys ever with her four wins during Sunday’s award show, and Megan Thee Stallion was the first female rapper to win best new artist since Lauryn Hill in 1999. Here’s 
See the 
Here’s 
P.S. The word 
The latest episode of “