
LONDON — The showrooms are shut, the street all but deserted.
This, last Friday, was Cork Street in Mayfair, one of London’s prime locations for contemporary art galleries. After almost a year of coronavirus-related restrictions that have hampered gallerists’ ability to display and sell art, the Britain-based fair organizer and publisher Frieze has chosen this address to offer dealers another way of doing business.
From October, about the time of the scheduled opening of the Frieze London and Frieze Masters fairs in Regent’s Park (both of which were 
“The question is whether galleries will continue to have space in London,” said Simon Fox, Frieze’s chief executive, explaining the thinking behind No. 9 Cork Street. “The answer to that, in time, might be ‘no.’” Frieze is seeking to diversify its business model and develop a “year-round relationship” with galleries and collectors, not “just during fair time,” he added.
For centuries, dealers have used their own real estate to frame and enhance the experience of looking at art. These bricks-and-mortar galleries validated the reputations of contemporary artists, and the prices asked for their works. But the coronavirus crisis, and digitalization, are forcing this generation of gallerists to rethink and adapt.
The idea of an upscale “hub” that proves flexible working environments for art professionals was pioneered last October by the 
“It hasn’t even started. It’s not working at all,” said Lisa Schiff, an art adviser based in New York and Los Angeles, who rents an office in the complex. “But maybe it’s confirmation that Cromwell Place is a good idea,” added Schiff, referring to Frieze’s plans for a similar London hub.
Good ideas are exactly what contemporary art dealerships have had to come up with since March, when live art fairs, which had provided as much as half their turnover, converted into less lucrative 
“You have to do things that are different from before, be original and distinguish yourself from your competitors,” said Stefan Ratibor, director of the London branch of 
Gagosian has invited Damien Hirst and his studio 
“It’s a full takeover without any restrictions or instructions,” said Ratibor of the artist-led project. “Two years ago, the idea of handing over a space to someone would have been preposterous.”
Similarly opportunistic thinking has seen dealerships set up shop in the Hamptons and Palm Beach, where many affluent Americans had gathered to escape pandemic-blighted cities, and could still visit galleries.
“It wasn’t about just following the wealthy collectors, it was more about keeping the system energized,” said Marc Glimcher, president and chief executive of Pace Gallery, which last year opened outposts in East Hampton and Palm Beach. In January, a show of five new paintings by Julian Schnabel, priced between $500,000 and $600,000 each, was included in Pace Palm Beach’s compressed program of smaller, shorter exhibitions. All sold on the first day, according to Glimcher.
“We’re in a serious situation. Our business has to react,” added Glimcher, who said that sale revenues at Pace were down about 30 percent in 2020.
Some major-name spaces have closed. 
Though sales might be down, international galleries continue to expand their bricks-and-mortar footprints. The Italian dealerships Massimo De Carlo and Continua have opened branches in Paris, underscoring the growing importance of the French capital in Europe’s 
Opening in July with a show of works by the Los Angeles abstract painter Mark Bradford, this museum-style collaborative project maintains Hauser & Wirth’s reputation for counterintuitive “outlier” locations, like its branch in Somerset, in the English countryside.
For the mega-gallery’s founder Iwan Wirth, and many other dealers, a prestigious urban location is no longer the only key to success. They point out that international collectors have now become accustomed to bidding big-ticket prices at online auctions for artworks they have yet to view in person.
“‘Phygital’ is the future of commercial art galleries,” said Wirth, referring to a hybrid business model that blends digital and physical experiences. This new way of working had emerged during the pandemic, he added.
“It needs bricks and mortar. Artists respond to a physical context, but it’s digitally accessible to everyone everywhere,” said Wirth. As an example, Wirth pointed to the Los Angeles artist Henry Taylor, who has recently created a body of work at Hauser & Wirth’s locked-down gallery in Somerset. On Friday, this became viewable and available online, priced between $65,000 and $750,000.
“Every generation prompts a new model of how to run a gallery,” said the dealer Jeffrey Deitch, who has galleries in New York and Los Angeles. His West Coast space is currently showing monumental, politically edged black-and-white drawings by Robert Longo, for between $65,000 and more than $1 million. The works can be viewed, with prices, in an online gallery on the dealership’s 
“The digital has allowed us to have an international audience, and that’s a big expansion,” Deitch said.
But why, at a time of economic and epidemiological crisis, when so many companies are vacating buildings, and so much is moving online, are some galleries still physically expanding?
“The art world is not a normal business,” Deitch said. “Galleries that can safely accommodate large groups of people are going to thrive.”
The millions of dollars in three-figure sales achieved by the 
But dealers who trade in seriously priced art that physically exists still need somewhere to show it. “The more things change, the more things stay the same,” said 
“We’re waiting for the return of the physical encounter,” he said.