
Declining infection rates, hospitalizations and deaths from the coronavirus 
“The best way to think about B.1.1.7 and other variants is to treat them as separate epidemics,” one expert said. 
At the moment, most vaccines appear to be effective against the variants. But public health officials are deeply worried that future iterations may require Americans to get regular rounds of booster shots or even new vaccines. Above, a vaccination site in Los Angeles.
More than 
Noah Green had recently
Speaker Nancy Pelosi said the officer who was killed, 
The shocking attack 
A Times investigation found that 
Demands for refunds spiked, and complaints to banks and credit card companies soared. The magnitude of the money involved is staggering for politics: All told, the Trump campaign and the Republican Party raised $1.2 billion with WinRed, a for-profit donation processing service, and refunded roughly 10 percent of it.
In effect, the overcharges were an interest-free loan — eventually paid off with some of the tens of millions of dollars Mr. Trump raised after the election under the guise of pursuing his unfounded claims of election fraud.
On Friday, Rob Manfred, the M.L.B. commissioner, 
Relocating the game — a move that players did not universally support — was 
Together they 
“The more that the knee was on his neck and shimmies were going on, the more you saw Floyd fade away,” Donald Williams, a 33-year-old mixed martial arts fighter who works as a security guard, testified.
The trial will resume on Monday. 
On Friday, 
Elsewhere, Easter still looks very different. In New York, churches are hoping increased attendance for services 
And in Europe, 
Do you often ask yourself, what time is it? What day is it? Why am I standing in front of the refrigerator staring at an old clove of garlic? You’re not alone. A year of uncertainty and loss has left 
One expert said that state could lead to anhedonia, or the loss of the ability to take pleasure in activities. Another said the pandemic’s longevity had contributed to the sense that time is moving differently and had dulled our ability to form meaningful new memories. Resilience seems in short supply.
Nearly 700 people responded to a Times question about work burnout. Maybe some of 
Jalen Suggs 
Alex Da Corte, known for provocative, brightly colored installations, will showcase the beloved “Sesame Street” character 
Photographing ocean’s youngest monsters. Revisiting Guantánamo’s first detainees. Skiing in the Himalayas despite conflict and coronavirus. 
Our editors also suggest 
Did you keep up with the news? 
Have an eye-opening week.