
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering what 
After four years of a sometimes tumultuous trans-Atlantic relationship, the European Union is eager for “a political climate change” and cooperation under President-elect Joe Biden. But if, as European leaders suspect, the incoming president finds himself consumed with domestic problems, 
Moreover, after four years of President Trump’s antagonism toward Europe, Europeans are more convinced than before that alliance cannot mean subordination to Washington and that it requires more European capacity to act alone.
Governments and public health organizations around the world responded slowly and ineffectually to the coronavirus outbreak, 
Faulty assumptions, ineffective planning and sluggish responses together helped fuel a pandemic that 
Investigators said they did not understand why the W.H.O. had waited until Jan. 30 to declare an international health emergency, nor why those clear warning signals were often ignored.
Here are 
Nearly one year after the virus was first detected in the U.S., the country is 
Portugal’s hospitals are on the brink of 
European leaders are set to debate a proposal this week for coronavirus “passports” that would let vaccinated people travel freely within the bloc.
India’s huge coronavirus vaccine rollout 
A video showing chaos in a Covid ward at a hospital in El Husseineya, Egypt, went viral on social media this month, drawing outrage across the country. The footage, filmed by Ahmed Nafei, a relative of one of the four patients who died in a single night, seemed to show that the hospital had run out of oxygen. The government rushed to deny the episode.
By talking to witnesses and analyzing the footage, our investigative reporters found that the
In August, 
Does its brushwork contain some clue to hidden treasure or a secret code? Could it be coveted by some cult that worships Hals, or perhaps beer? The answer, experts say, is probably more pedestrian: “They know they can get money out of it from somebody,” said the founder of Art Recovery International.
How do you mark the most significant events when the news is already so relentlessly remarkable? At The New York Times, one way is 
A banner headline is typically one that stretches across a newspaper’s front page or website. It uses jumbo letters and bold type to convey the magnitude of a news item, pushing other articles out of its way.
There have been a lot of banner headlines on the front pages of The Times this winter — far more than usual, according to Tom Jolly, the newspaper’s print editor.
“It’s remarkable,” he said. “It’s definitely a reflection of our world, and all the major news events that have made 2020 so memorable — and are making 2021 memorable, too.”
An “event headline” is even bolder than a banner. The single word topping the print newspaper on Jan. 14 — “Impeached” — was discussed by several top Times editors in conversations that went late into the night, Tom said.
Though such headlines are typically reserved for presidential election results, this is an extraordinary time. Over the past three months, this ultra-dramatic layout has already been used three times. And counting.
Here are some of the big headlines:
When former Vice President Joe Biden took the lead in Pennsylvania, the fog of a too-close-to-call election began to lift.
After President Trump falsely claimed that widespread voter fraud had stolen victory from him, The Times called election officials in every state.
And two days after the siege by Mr. Trump’s supporters at the Capitol, Democrats 
That’s it for today. See you tomorrow, with the latest from The Times.
— Natasha