
Good morning.
We’re covering the 
Myanmar’s generals, who staged a coup a month ago, 
Many of the products were purchased from Western countries during Myanmar’s five years of civilian-military rule that ended with the coup on Feb. 1. Some of the tech helped people in Myanmar go online, and other systems like spyware were portrayed as integral to law enforcement. But now, critics say the armed forces used the facade of democracy to justify the sensitive cybersecurity and defense purchases.
Some of these technologies are being deployed by the military to target opponents. Documents show that the security forces have triangulated between their critics’ social media posts and the addresses of their internet hookups to find where they live.
China has charged ahead with an effort to remake the way that government-backed money works, 
Testing of the eCNY began last year in four cities and was recently expanded to bigger cities, such as Beijing and Shanghai. The government has not said if and when it will roll out the eCNY nationwide, but several officials have said it could be ready for tourists at the 2022 Olympics in Beijing.
The Philippines 
President Rodrigo Duterte urged the public to get vaccinated, telling Filipinos to “please set your fears aside.” Regulators who issued emergency-use authorization for the vaccine recommended that it not be administered to health workers or people age 60 and older, citing uncertainty over its efficacy rate among those groups.
Recent surveys have shown that almost half of Filipinos are unwilling to receive any coronavirus vaccine because of safety concerns. The reluctance may also stem from a vaccine scare during a dengue immunization program in 2017, as well as distrust of China-made vaccines.
Here are 
Prime Minister Narendra Modi 
Days after the House of Representatives passed 
The European Union will propose issuing a certificate called a Digital Green Pass that would allow let 
As trade disputes pile up, Britain and the European Union have fallen out politically and diplomatically with a speed and a bitterness that surprised even pessimists about the relationship.
Our correspondent 
It’s a combination of blocking just about any foreign website you can think of and providing an information environment that reinforces what China’s government and the Chinese Communist Party say about the world.
The controls are comprehensive. A huge government bureaucracy monitors online activity, and an army of volunteers report content to be censored and help spread positive messages about government initiatives. Companies are tasked with pulling material off the internet and engineering teams are dispatched to build artificial intelligence tools to help. Contractors provide the manpower for industrial scale censorship.
Yes. It comes at the cost of the government’s energy and money and the permanent anger of a segment of the population, but it’s extremely effective in shaping what many think.
Most people don’t have time to escape the information environment they live in, so it informs their outlook on the world — especially during crises.
The fear is that China will make the technology and techniques of its internet manipulation system readily adaptable by other autocratic countries. Myanmar is important to watch because if the generals control the internet without decimating the economy, it may become a model for other authoritarian regimes.
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Melina