
In all the recent market mania, it might be easy to forget that there’s an actual company at the center of the frenzy. Here’s a quick look at the real-world prospects for GameStop, which begins the week with a market cap of more than $20 billion, up from $1 billion at the start of the year.
[Read more on 
“There’s no reason that stock should be where it is,” Bruce Cohen, co-founder of the retail advisory firm CH Consulting, told DealBook. “That is just a stock manipulation exercise.”
The “biggest risk,” according to Lynn Turner, a former chief accountant of the S.E.C., is that people stop putting money in the markets “because they think it’s turned from investing into betting at a craps table.” 
Heading into the weekend, 
He revealed that early last Thursday, an arm of the Depository Trust and Clearing Corporation, Wall Street’s main clearinghouse for stock trades, had demanded $3 billion in additional collateral — “an order of magnitude” more than usual — to cover risky trades by its customers. That was later reduced to about $700 million, but Robinhood was still forced to draw down credit lines and raise $1 billion from investors.
After Mr. Tenev said that Robinhood had imposed trading curbs to lessen its collateral requirements, Mr. Musk asked whether the company was “beholden” to Citadel Securities, the huge financial firm that 
Among the notable reports are 
The 
At the center of the meme-stocks frenzy is Reddit, whose WallStreetBets forum was the birthplace of the trade that pushed shares in GameStop to dizzying heights. The message board operator’s C.E.O., Steve Huffman, joined Kara Swisher for the 
Users are simply voicing opinions, according to Mr. Huffman, and that’s legal: “I’m not even sure what gates we would put in place.”
I would make the exact same criticism of CNBC, of any financial newsletter. That is how the game is played. People have their theories. They have their desires. They have stocks that they’re pushing. They go on TV. They go on newsletters. They write newsletters. They go on forums.
Shares in companies affiliated with HNA, the once-highflying Chinese conglomerate, slumped as creditors sought to push their parent into bankruptcy. (
Last month set a record for I.P.O. offerings, 
The Paycheck Protection Program has been revived, but researchers say the lending program saved relatively few jobs. (
The Jan. 6 rally in Washington that preceded the Capitol riot was funded largely by the heiress to the Publix supermarket chain, a top donor to the Trump campaign. (
Inside the demise of Mt. Gox, once a huge Bitcoin exchange. (
Winners of a federal auction for 5G spectrum, which attracted $81 billion worth of bids, are expected to be announced soon. (
The shocking tale of one man’s hunt for the person destroying his and his family’s reputations — and many, many others — online. (
“How Women Are Changing the Philanthropy Game” (
Forget the Ivy League: The C.I.A. is trawling Twitter and LinkedIn to recruit millennial and Gen Z agents. (
We’d like your feedback! Please email thoughts and suggestions to 