
Good morning.
We’re covering President Trump’s 
Donald Trump last night became the first U.S. president to be impeached twice, as the House voted 232 to 197 to 
China, facing its 
At an average of 109 new cases a day over the past week, the flare-ups are small compared with the devastation in other countries, but they threaten to undercut the success China has had in subduing the virus and restarting the economy. The lockdown includes the cities of Shijiazhuang, Xingtai and Langfang and districts within Beijing.
Here are 
More than 4,400 deaths from the coronavirus were reported across the U.S. on Tuesday, 
Johnson & Johnson 
It is “not possible” for Germany to end its lockdown on Feb. 1 as scheduled, the health minister said on Wednesday: “This virus is still too present for that, and the health care system is still too burdened.”
Spain registered almost 39,000 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, the highest daily count since the pandemic inundated the country in March.
As eligibility for vaccines expands, states across the U.S. are scrambling to meet the 
Despite the threat of being jailed upon arrival, the Russian opposition leader Aleksei Navalny said yesterday that he 
Mr. Navalny was poisoned in Siberia in August in what he and Western officials say was an assassination attempt by the Russian government. He fell into a coma and was flown to Berlin for treatment.
The announcement of his return came two days after Russia’s prison authority 
In the years after the Korean War, refugees like Han Gi-taek, above, arrived in Haean, a town on the border with North Korea, to build a new life. Stray land mines and the brutal cold made the land hard to cultivate, so the government promised the settlers that they would be allowed to keep the land if they worked it for 10 years.
Now, after a long holdup over thorny legal issues, South Korea is making good on its promise to 160 families. Our correspondent looked at 
President Emmanuel Macron of France was one of the first world leaders to act to help freelance workers in the arts, removing a minimum requirement of hours worked for those who had previously qualified for a special unemployment system for performing artists. He also 
In June, the German government announced a $1.2 billion fund to restart cultural life, including helping venues upgrade their ventilation systems. The finance ministry intends to start funds to support organizers of smaller cultural events and to provide insurance for larger events to mitigate the risk of cancellation. 
Though South Africa’s coronavirus relief efforts have been 
In July, the British government 
That’s all from me. Thanks for starting your day with The Times.
— Natasha