
LONDON — I wonder if this is what the Black Death was like. People wandering around with donkeys, crying, “Bring out your dead!” and painting crosses on walls, which was, I guess, like a medieval Twitter. #AllHopeIsLost.
Everyone I know is either a Brexit Denier — “It’s not happening,” they say. “We’ll have a People’s Vote! Another referendum! We’ll win this time!” — or a Brexit Apocalypticist — “It’s happening. We are doomed. Hold my hand and run toward the blast.” The only people who are hopeful are the far-right supporters of a “hard Brexit” who marched through the streets of London on Sunday protesting Prime Minister Theresa May’s “betrayal” and carrying her effigy. They didn’t hang it. Presumably, that can wait.
On Monday, the real Mrs. May 
It feels like a good time to mention that the Palace of Westminster is falling apart. The building itself is a rotting construct, honoring an imagined past and — just for fun — built on a marsh. What does that remind you of, eh? It was not much publicized, for obvious reasons, but on June 23, 2016, the day of the Brexit referendum itself, the basement was 
Politicians, the ones absolutely no one has any faith in, are snuffling in the wreckage now, hoping to succeed Mrs. May. It’s a horrible thing to watch calamity treated as opportunity but they thrive on it: The Labour Party, despite what its leaders might tell you, wants a hard Brexit and a general election — in that order. The Conservatives don’t know what they want, but Brexiteers are excited about being in charge. Boris Johnson, a Lothario galloping to seed, apparently has a new haircut, a sign that he’s ready to make yet another play for the top job. It is always about the hair for Boris. Increasingly, I think it is really his brain. Michael Gove, the environment secretary and one of the few Brexiteers left in Mrs. May’s cabinet, is skulking reasonably, hoping to squeeze through the middle. Jacob Rees-Mogg, who attended Margaret Thatcher’s funeral in a top hat, is denying all leadership ambitions, presumably from the center of some giant web built by the ghost of Ayn Rand.
[
Entertainers are wading in, because this is entertainment, or rather, when you treat politics like entertainment, you get this. Americans know that. I increasingly feel we are in Hollywood as the screenwriter William Goldman famously described it: “Nobody knows anything.” 
Pamela Anderson — formerly of the constituency of “Baywatch” and who now lives in France and has taken passionate interest in European politics — has strong opinions on a potential Labour-led Brexit: “Lexit is a left exit,” 
But back in what is, for now, still the fifth largest economy in the world, the actor Andy Serkis — Gollum from “Lord of the Rings” in the constituency of Middle Earth — 
No one here knows 
I see Brexit as a progressive disease, like alcoholism. What you think gives you hope — nostalgia or vodka, who cares? — is killing you. I wouldn’t have said this at any time since 1940 but it feels apt now. Pray for us.
Tanya Gold (