
LONDON — While Prime Minister Theresa May was visiting European leaders to find support for improving 
On Wednesday, the process came to a head. Here’s a guide to how it unfolded.
transcript
“The result of the ballot held this evening is that the parliamentary party does have confidence. [cheering] The number of votes cast in favor of having confidence in Theresa May was 200 and against, was 117. Under the rules set out in the Constitution of the Conservative Party, no further confidence vote can take place for at least 12 months.” [cheering] “A significant number of colleagues did cast a vote against me and I’ve listened to what they said. Following this ballot, we now need to get on with the job of delivering Brexit for the British people and building a better future for this country: a Brexit that delivers on the vote that people gave, that brings back control of our money, our borders and our laws; that protects jobs, security and the union, That brings the country back together rather than entrenching division. That must start, here in Westminster, with politicians on all sides coming together and acting in the national interest. For my part, I’ve heard what the House of Commons said about the Northern Ireland backstop, and when I go to the European Council tomorrow I will be seeking legal and political assurances that will assuage the concerns that members of Parliament have on that issue.”
At least 15 percent of her party’s lawmakers — at least 48 members of Parliament — submitted letters demanding a ballot to the chairman of the 1922 committee, the body that represents Conservative backbenchers.
The chairman, Graham Brady, announced on Wednesday that he had received more than the required number of letters, and that the no-confidence vote would proceed.
Conservative lawmakers gathered in Westminster on Wednesday evening to give Mrs. May a chance to address them.
After the prime minister’s address, lawmakers cast ballots in a metal box for about two hours, from 6 to 8 p.m. local time, with the result revealed about an hour later.
Mrs. May had to win 50 percent of the votes plus one, and there are 317 Conservative lawmakers. (The Tories restored voting rights to two lawmakers who had been suspended previously, raising the total.)
Because the ballots are cast in secret, it was not certain that everyone who promised to support Mrs. May would necessarily vote for her.
Mrs. May now has breathing room.
The lawmakers in her party are barred from challenging her for one year, which strengthens her position.
Mr. Brady announced later Wednesday night that 
A very narrow win could’ve put her under pressure to resign, because dozens of the lawmakers who voted are also government ministers, meaning it could’ve been argued that she had won only with the support of politicians paid to support her administration.
Nobody knows, really. But these are the likeliest scenarios.
In 1990, one former prime minister, Margaret Thatcher, resigned after she was challenged under a different procedure and won only narrowly in a first round of voting.
Mrs. May could conceivably also lose power after winning this leadership vote if Parliament as a whole passes a vote of no confidence in her government.
There’s no sign of that happening yet. Her Brexit plan, however, still remains imperiled.
Mrs. May would no longer be the leader of the Conservative Party, and Mr. Brady would’ve begun the process to choose a successor, most likely on Tuesday.
Lawmakers would’ve voted in rounds of secret ballots, with the least-popular candidate eliminated each time, until two contenders remain.
Mr. Brady said he believed that part of the process could be done by the end of business next Thursday, when Parliament is scheduled to break for the Christmas vacation.
From the two top candidates, the final choice would’ve been left to around 120,000 members of the Conservative Party who would’ve vote by postal ballot.
In 2005, 
After the vote, Mrs. May spoke 