
LONDON — On the day that Prime Minister Theresa May presented her draft plan for Britain’s exit from the European Union, also known as Brexit, worries about the country’s future spiked across the land and a fellow Conservative politician stood up in Parliament and suggested it was time for a no-confidence vote against her.
The next day,
The tweets were various shades of rude, crude and obscene (therefore unprintable here). They were often distinctly British, touching on Mr. Rees-Mogg’s posh accent, his upper-class background and his “nanny,” to name a few themes. 
We read many of them so you don’t have to. Here’s why #CurseReesMogg has been trending since Friday.
 
On Friday, 
The hashtag rose to the top of the charts and grew into a furor aimed at Mr. Rees-Mogg and his role in Brexit. Many referred to the wish for a 
“May nanny bath you in ice cold water and rub you down with a Brillo pad,” 
In a class-conscious country, others wished for him to suddenly begin speaking with 
“May you bump your head hard on an unexpectedly low doorway and wake up with a thick regional accent.”
“May you wake up in the morning with an Essex accent and a Burberry baseball cap permanently fixed to your head … and your family come from Salford.”
The opposition Labour party, and its leader, Jeremy Corbyn, were frequent curses:
“May you wake up after an all night bender to find 
For many Britons, Mr. Rees-Mogg conjures the 18th century in the way he speaks, acts and lives. But he has managed a 21st-century feat by commanding attention on social media with a comic persona and unashamedly elitist views in recent years.
The former fund manager and father of six mixes a consciously traditional style and upper-class mannerisms, which have afforded him a measure of online fame. 
The joke turned serious last fall, when he 
Since January, Mr. Rees-Mogg has also been the head of the European Research Group, a coalition of pro-Brexit Conservative lawmakers.
On Thursday, he raised the question of writing a letter to the party leadership calling for a no-confidence vote against Mrs. May. He also 
Mrs. May’s leadership has been imperiled at various stages of the Brexit negotiations, and the signatures of at least 48 Conservative party lawmakers can trigger a no-confidence vote.
Twitter users saw rich fodder for curses in Mr. Rees-Mogg’s social status: “May all his servants
Mr. Rees-Mogg does have his defenders, with supporters praising him as authentic. But, behind the persona, critics say, he is a populist who opposes same-sex marriage and abortion, and subscribes to a hard line on Brexit that seems blind to warnings of economic damage.
His backers were among those answering the #CurseReesMogg tweets, complaining that they unfairly targeted Mr. Rees-Mogg. 
Others called the tweets outright abuse, 
But the tweets rolled on for a second day.
Many displayed a typically British brand of humor, blending sarcasm, a touch of cruelty and self-derision. They played on well-known brands like Wetherspoons, a chain of pubs that has openly backed Brexit, and, of course, biscuits and tea. 
People admitted 