
LONDON — A flurry of diplomatic activity on Sunday failed to produce a breakthrough in talks between Britain and the European Union, leaving prospects for a deal finely balanced at the start of a crucial week in talks about the country’s exit from the bloc.
“Despite intense efforts, some key issues are still open,” said the European Union’s chief negotiator, Michel Barnier, after tense talks that took place in Brussels three days ahead of a planned summit meeting between the British prime minister, Theresa May, and her European counterparts.
We met today 
It was unclear whether the deadlock on Sunday was a significant setback in 
But tensions are acute within Mrs. May’s fractious Conservative Party, with several hard-line pro-Brexit members of her cabinet reported to be considering resignation if they judge that she is making too many concessions in a withdrawal agreement.
Britain is due to leave the bloc in March and there has been hope that this week’s summit meeting, which begins with a dinner on Wednesday, will at least make significant progress laying down the basic “divorce terms” between Britain and the European Union.
Without a deal, Britain could face a disorderly, and economically damaging, 
The most delicate of the outstanding issues is the so-called backstop plan to ensure that, whatever happens in talks on future trade, there is no need to impose new checks at the border between Northern Ireland, which is part of the United Kingdom, and Ireland, which will remain in the European Union. In addition to the legally binding withdrawal agreement, the two sides also aim to agree on a vaguer deal outlining the shape of their long-term trade relationship.
If this week’s summit meeting makes progress, another could be scheduled for November to sign off on an agreement.
But Mrs. May has very little room for maneuver in the face of a growing mutiny at home.
On Sunday, David Davis, the hard-line former Brexit secretary who quit the cabinet earlier this year, urged ministers to “exert their collective authority,” effectively encouraging them to rebel against Mrs. May’s emerging plans for British withdrawal.
Later on Sunday, Mr. Davis’s successor, Dominic Raab, made an unexpected trip to Brussels to hold face-to-face discussions with Mr. Barnier. It dampened early over-optimistic speculation about a breakthrough.
In a statement on Sunday, Mr. Raab’s department said: “In the last few days, U.K. and E.U. negotiators have made real progress in a number of key areas. However, there remain a number of unresolved issues relating to the backstop.”
After the talks, before briefing senior European Union diplomats, Mr. Barnier said that the unresolved issues included the Irish backstop plans to avoid a “hard border.”
Mrs. May’s emerging plan to do so would keep the whole of the United Kingdom inside the European Union’s customs rule book until a new trade deal removes the need for controls at the Irish border.
Hard-line Brexit supporters in her cabinet fear this could become a semi-permanent arrangement and want any promise to abide by European customs rules to be temporary. From the European Union’s perspective, that would fatally undermine its value as a guarantee.
Mrs. May also faces problems from Northern Ireland’s Democratic Unionist Party, whose 10 lawmakers in the British Parliament are vital to the survival of her government.
They are concerned about another aspect of the “backstop plan,” which could involve new regulatory checks on the flow of goods between mainland Britain and Northern Ireland. The party fears that this could weaken their union with the rest of the United Kingdom, and some of its lawmakers have threatened to remove their support from the government if it agrees to such plans.