
BRUSSELS — British Prime Minister Theresa May tried Wednesday to salvage talks on her country’s withdrawal from the European Union, appealing for time to avert a messy and economically damaging departure without an agreement and hinting that it might take longer than expected to fully pull away from the bloc.
At a European summit meeting in Brussels that began on Wednesday, Mrs. May and other European leaders discussed for the first time the possibility of prolonging Britain’s proposed 20-month transition after a March exit, the “standstill” period during which very little would change.
Some of Mrs. May’s European counterparts are becoming increasingly frustrated with talks over Britain’s withdrawal from the bloc, known as “Brexit.” Lithuanian President Dalia Grybauskaite told reporters not to expect a breakthrough on Wednesday because the British side had still failed to explain clearly how it wanted to leave the European Union.
“Today we do not know what they want,” she said. “They do not know themselves what they really want. That is the problem.”
Since Britons voted in a 2016 referendum to leave the European Union, their divided government has struggled to define a negotiating position that reconciles conflicting objectives. While some want to keep close economic ties to the bloc to protect the economy, others would prefer a cleaner break and some hard-line pro-Brexit members of Mrs. May’s cabinet may be on the brink of resignation.
Talks broke down on Sunday, halting discussions over Brexit that many had hoped would reach a climax at the Brussels summit meeting. On Wednesday, Mrs. May was battling to save the negotiations and keep channels of communication open. She addressed the other leaders ahead of a dinner, insisting that a deal was possible before leaving them to their meal and their own discussion about the way ahead.
A summit meeting that had been penciled in for November to finalize a Brexit agreement is now unlikely to take place and most diplomats expect any deal will have to wait until December.
The big sticking point in the negotiations is the Irish border. On Wednesday, Mrs. May restated her commitment to ensuring that, whatever happens in talks on future trade ties between Britain and the European Union, there will be no need for new customs and other checks on goods at the frontier between Northern Ireland, which is part of the United Kingdom, and Ireland, which will remain in the European Union.
Given the difficulty of untying the knotty issue of how to manage a frictionless border between Northern Ireland and Ireland, most diplomats now expect that an agreement is unlikely before December. The European Union negotiator, Michel Barnier, called for calm discussions but said: “We need much more time.”
The prospects of a disorderly British departure — with potentially profound economic consequences — have grown in recent days. But if Mrs. May can keep negotiations going, it may help her to postpone the ultimate decisions — some likely to be politically painful compromises — until later.
Without a majority in Parliament, Mrs. May is a weak prime minister at the head of a divided cabinet who has been doing her best to postpone serious choices about how to resolve the Irish border problem and about a future relationship with Brussels. She fears that too definitive a policy now would bring down her government.
Her tactic has often seemed to be to delay as long as possible in the hopes that, faced with a real deadline for Brexit, her cabinet and Parliament would support a withdrawal deal, however unsatisfactory, rather than risk the chaos of a “no-deal” Brexit.
Though Mrs. May has often said that no deal is better than a bad deal, she is likely to argue down the road that no deal is worse than a not-so-terrible deal.
The potential disruption that could accompany a no-deal scenario was underscored on Wednesday when the French government published some of its contingency planning for a British departure without a deal. That could mean Britons needing visas to visit France, the document suggested.
One British idea to break the deadlock is for the whole of the United Kingdom to remain inside a customs union until there is a plan in place for future trade that would obviate the need for checks. But Mrs. May’s pro-Brexit hard-liners fear that their country could be trapped indefinitely in a customs union and want a time limit on this plan.
Some Europeans worry that the proposal would also allow Britain a competitive advantage.
Extending the post-Brexit transition period, perhaps by another year, would give more time to negotiate the details of Britain’s future relationship with the bloc. But that would not please those in Britain, including members of Mrs. May’s own cabinet, who want a cleaner, faster break with Brussels.
The Irish foreign minister, Simon Coveney, said that the European Union would be willing to extend a transition period but insisted that Britain must not renege on previous agreements to prevent a hard border in Ireland.
Ahead of the meeting Mrs. May said that “everybody around the table” wanted an agreement for an orderly British withdrawal, and “by working intensively over the next days and weeks I believe we can achieve a deal.”
Speaking after her talk to the other leaders, the head of the European Parliament, Antonio Tajani, said that “I did not perceive anything substantially new in terms of content as I listened to Mrs. May. The tone was of someone who wanted to reach an agreement. But there’s no change in content.”
There was better news for Mrs. May from the United States. In what was presumably intended to bolster Mrs. May, the Trump administration announced that it would initiate trade negotiations with Britain — but only after it leaves the European Union at the end of March 2019.
While talks can take place, Britain would not be able to sign any trade deal with another country until after the transition period of nearly two years, if not longer, while it negotiates its own future relationship with the European Union.
As currently understood, that transition period would last until at least the end of 2020, though it might be extended until the end of 2021. During that time Britain would follow the rules of the European Union even if it is not formally a member, and would continue to pay into the bloc’s budget.
Freedom to do its own trade deals is an important plank of the government’s interpretation of Brexit. But if Britain and Brussels in the end choose to negotiate a customs union for the future, Britain would remain unable to do its own trade deals separate from those negotiated by the European Union.
The Trump administration simultaneously informed Congress that it also intended to negotiate trade deals with the European Union and Japan, beginning within 90 days.