
Brexit was never expected to be easy, but the process of 
Time is fast running out. The European Union has declared a 
All that puts extraordinary weight on the shoulders of Mrs. May, who was initially opposed to Britain’s leaving the European Union but fell into the job of carrying out the exit as the steady, low-key choice to take charge in the tumult following the June 2016 referendum vote to leave the union. Mrs. May has made her share of mistakes, including her gamble on a general election last year that cost her party its majority in Parliament, but she does have some advantages in the endgame, including her admirable sense of duty and others’ fears that her ouster would lead to political turmoil.
Part of the difficulty of discerning where things stand is the mix of agendas involved and the brinkmanship that always accompanies the final stages of negotiations. European Union leaders — especially the French president, Emmanuel Macron — are determined to make the exit as painful as possible to deter other union members from defecting. At a meeting of the bloc on Thursday, Mr. Macron said the “leave” victory in the 2016 referendum was orchestrated by politicians who predicted easy solutions. 
At home, Mrs. May faces anti-union rebels within her party, like Boris Johnson, her former foreign secretary who quit over 
Many Conservative members of Parliament, however, dread the notion of a rise of power by either the theatrical Mr. Johnson or the old-line socialist Jeremy Corbyn, leader of the Labour Party, and would more likely prefer to stay with Mrs. May whatever their reservations about her Brexit plan. In the European Union, too, some Euroskeptic leaders like
In the end, Mrs. May’s best hope probably lies in a fudged agreement that would leave many specific details to be resolved in a transition period beyond the March deadline. That would make it easier for the prime minister to get approval from Parliament and to keep working on the devilish details, like 
Another option, favored by British politicians like the London mayor, Sadiq Khan, and by many on the European Union side, is another referendum. Mrs. May insists there will not be a second vote, but given how much has come to light about the consequences of Brexit — and the possibility of Russian interference in the vote — there is a valid argument for putting the question back before the public.
However the game plays out, what is clear, to paraphrase a famous Englishman, is 