
LONDON — The composer Howard Goodall was passing through a London airport in March en route to a conducting gig in Houston. Idling at the currency exchange desk, he got into a conversation with an employee about whether Britain’s departure from the European Union, known as Brexit, would be good for his industry. When Mr. Goodall said no and suggested that the consequences would be “disastrous,” the clerk replied that everyone he asked that question “gives the same answer.”
Mr. Goodall 
“Well, I needed to say something,” Mr. Goodall said in a recent interview.
As Britain lives through the psychodrama of Brexit — 
Carmakers and financial institutions, airplane manufacturers and the energy industry: All have voiced anxiety about how much negotiation remains to be done. Last month, Amazon weighed in: Doug Gurr, the company’s most senior executive in Britain, warned that if the country left the European Union without negotiating a new arrangement with the bloc (the “no-deal” scenario), there could be civil unrest.
In comparison, the cause of classical music perhaps seems trivial. But plenty in the sector are unsettled. Musicians, including the pianist-conductors Vladimir Ashkenazy and Daniel Barenboim have 
In July, the House of Lords, the upper chamber of the British Parliament, 
By then, the European Union Youth Orchestra had long since announced that its administrative team would be
Months after his encounter at the airport, Mr. Goodall still seems incensed. He is a realist, he said: Classical music was never going to be top of the priority list. But he felt that the arguments were being drowned out by bigger, better-funded lobbying groups.
Mr. Goodall said that while many of Britain’s traditional industries had withered, culture was one area where it still produced world-class exports. According to the government’s own Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport, the creative industry 
“The music business is international, and in this country we have an international reputation,” Mr. Goodall said. “We’re at risk of losing it.”
Michael Jay, the chairman of the committee that wrote the House of Lords report, agrees. “Individuals working in the U.K. cultural sector are highly mobile, and have thrived on collaboration with people from all over the world,” he said in a statement.
For the creative industry, a major problem would be created if Britain detaches from agreements guaranteeing freedom of movement in the European Union — something that enables citizens not just to travel anywhere within the bloc, but to work anywhere, too. Mrs. May has said that Britain 
If British ensembles are required to organize visas for every concert in, for example, Amsterdam or Berlin, as well as licenses to travel with their instruments, they would find it harder to tour — and, given the likely costs, it would be much harder to make touring financially viable.
Opera houses are particularly vulnerable, said Wasfi Kani, who runs 
Ms. Kani said that the Grange Park Opera was “very dependent on European singers” and that British performers benefited from having to compete with musicians from abroad. “It raises everyone’s game,” she said.
There are myriad other concerns for the sector: the fate of thousands of students from other European Union countries in British music schools, Pan-European regulations on intellectual property, and cultural funding that flows directly from the bloc’s institutions. While haggling over Britain’s exit continues, all those issues are up in the air.
“It’s a very messy situation,” Mr. Goodall said. “It’s the same in so many industries, from pharmaceuticals to technology. And the issue is, there so few answers. No one seems to know.”
John Whittingdale, a Brexit-supporting member of Parliament and a former minister who ran the culture department, said in an interview that such anxieties were alarmist. “We have some of the best orchestras, musicians and conductors in the world, and that has nothing to do with the E.U.,” he said. “The concerns that musicians have are largely to do with the arrangements once we leave, and those will be in our gift. They will depend entirely on the immigration rules that we put in place.”
Mr. Whittingdale added that he hoped that after Britain’s exit it would be easier for performers from anywhere in the world to come to Britain — not just European Union citizens.
In an interview at the Southbank Center, a London arts venue close to the offices that the European Union Youth Orchestra has recently vacated, Mr. Marcus was eager to present the ensemble’s move to Italy as an opportunity rather than a retreat. But the reality was that young British instrumentalists were likely to lose out, he said. “We’re currently in our own version of a transition period, but after 2020 we’ll have to see how things shake down.”
He said he was also anxious that Britain would end up more isolated, culturally as well as politically. “The U.K. has a thriving cultural scene; it might not disappear overnight. But over a 50-year period, who knows?”
There are signs that, amid all the other sound and fury over Brexit, politicians are starting to pay more attention to the concerns of the creative industry. The House of Lords report has brought the issue a little higher up the lawmaking agenda, though what that will mean in practice is — as with nearly everything else surrounding the issue — difficult to judge.
In a statement, a spokesman for the culture ministry said, “We recognize the need for classical musicians to tour across the E.U. without prohibitive restrictions and to regularly move goods on a temporary basis.”
Not everyone is reassured. At the Eurostar terminal in London on a recent morning, members of 
Asked about Brexit, Ruth Gibson, 32, a viola player originally from Ireland but who is now based in London, rolled her eyes. “Honestly, I’m trying not to think about it,” she said. “We’re freelance musicians; more uncertainty is the last thing we need, to be honest.”
On the program that evening, she added, was 
“Music has no borders,” Ms. Gibson said. “That’s the whole point, isn’t it?”