
LONDON — The Bank of England raised interest rates on Thursday to their highest levels in nearly a decade as it seeks to tamp down inflation and make preparations for a potential economic downturn as Britain exits the European Union.
Policymakers at the central bank 
Before the decision, they voiced concern about inflation, which, at 2.4 percent, is above the bank’s 2 percent target. And while 
In its 
But while the bank officially made the move in an effort to tackle inflation, it also clearly had another goal in mind: to give it wiggle room to cut rates in the future, particularly if Brexit, as the withdrawal from the European Union is called, deals a blow to the British economy.
Economists have warned that leaving the 28-nation bloc will hurt growth by restricting Britain’s access to its main trading partner. Those concerns have been amplified by a seeming lack of progress between London and Brussels on the post-Brexit trading relationship.
Such a “no-deal” outcome has 
As a result, the central bank has sought to add levers that can be used if some measure of stimulus is needed for the British economy.
“It’s cleaner for them to go now,” said David Owen, chief European economist at the investment bank Jefferies, referring to the rate rise. Mr. Owen said that as Britain neared its withdrawal, due in March, the Bank of England would have less time to raise rates, and that the political risks surrounding Brexit would be increased.
Like other central banks, the Bank of England has sought to dial back monetary stimulus put in place after the financial crisis.
But its efforts have been complicated by Brexit. Soon after the vote to leave the European Union in June 2016, the bank cut its benchmark interest rate to 0.25 percent, the lowest rate in its history, and increased its bond-buying program.
It eventually lifted the rate in November last year, depicting it as a 
“Today’s rise in interest rates makes sense both from a short-term perspective and in terms of a sustainable long-term monetary strategy,” said Andrew Sentance, senior economic adviser at the professional services firm PwC.