
LONDON — For all the drama of knife-edge votes in Parliament, the sniping and sabotage, the resignations and political insurrections, Britain is now staring at a hard truth. Its deadline for exiting the European Union is less than nine months away. And there is no workable plan in sight.
The political fight is so noisy, stoked by a partisan British news media, that it is easy to forget what 
This week, in a sign of mounting anxiety, the British government announced plans to issue regular warnings to citizens and businesses — likely to range from how to prevent medicine shortages to what documents would be needed to drive in France — so that everyone can prepare for the chance that a deal will not be struck. A no-deal divorce would be so dire that many politicians quietly believe it will be avoided and common sense will prevail.
The question is how. Parliament is paralyzed. Prime Minister Theresa May is besieged. Her Conservatives are bitterly divided, consumed by infighting, while the opposition Labour Party keeps its head down, hoping to exploit the chaos.
There are factions pushing to hold a second Brexit referendum that might reverse the first — except doing that would provoke a backlash among supporters of withdrawal. There is speculation about a general election to produce a new government with a clear majority — but that didn’t work last June.
There is also talk, ceaselessly, of a leadership challenge to Mrs. May — yet her critics seemingly lack the numbers to be sure of deposing her. This week there was even talk of a national unity government.
Though President Trump 
“Basically nobody has the faintest idea what will happen,” said Charles Grant, director of the Center for European Reform, a research institute. “The risk is real of political deadlock in Britain with Britain drifting toward the cliff edge.”
For the moment, the European Union 
In the worst case, that would mean suddenly reimposing the types of checks that exist at many borders. That could include customs inspections usually meant to decide if tariffs need to be paid and other checks to decide if food and medicine meet the safety standards of the country where the goods are going.
For months, the consuming political narrative has been the fight within the Conservative Party. The Tories are divided between those who want a “hard Brexit,” a clean break from European rules, and those who want to protect the economy and soften the impact of departure. But within these competing camps are factions, which are making it harder to reach any kind of solution.
Given the prospect of economic chaos on both sides of the English Channel, Simon Fraser, a former top career official in Britain’s Foreign Office who is now managing partner at a consultancy, Flint Global, said that “the calculation has to be that it is in the interests of both sides to reach a deal.”
“But sitting here today,” he added, “one can’t yet see how the deal will be done.”
The breakthrough 
But the hard Brexit camp digested the deal and spat it back out, with 
Mrs. May’s Chequers plan is now steadily being attacked from different sides. On Monday, she caved in to hard-line Brexit enthusiasts and accepted amendments that were designed to make the deal unpalatable to the European side. This, in turn, led to the resignation of one Conservative minister, Guto Bebb.
Then on Tuesday, 
Kenneth Clarke, a pro-European Conservative lawmaker and former cabinet minister, told the BBC that Parliament “always goes mad in July” — the season of summer drinks receptions, when plotting traditionally reaches its zenith. But, he added, “I have never seen it go so mad before.”
Ironically, the 2016 Brexit referendum was called by Mrs. May’s predecessor, David Cameron, 
Such pledges 
In theory Mrs. May does not need to negotiate a full trade plan to avoid the cliff edge and enter a transition period in which things would stay the same between the Brexit deadline in March 2019 and the end of December 2020. Britain could use that extra time to sort out the rest.
But to get there she needs a withdrawal agreement, and that is difficult. The Europeans refuse to sign any deal unless it guarantees that 
The Ireland problem, in turn, leads to a broader question about what kind of access a post-Brexit Britain could, or could not, have to Europe’s single market.
This is at the heart of Mrs. May’s Chequers plan, which envisages avoiding a Northern Ireland border and ensuring smooth trade by creating a complex new customs system. But even some of Mrs. May’s admirers concede that this customs plan will probably not fly with the Europeans.
Mr. Grant, the director of the Center for European Reform, thinks that, as the deadlock continues, the European Union may become more flexible. If Mrs. May gets something close to her Chequers plan, she can perhaps persuade hard-liners that they have to accept it or risk the future of the Brexit project with another general election.
Others think that Mrs. May might fail to strike a deal with the European Union but that if no resolution is in sight by January, her Parliament would rise up and force an election to avoid the cliff edge. Perhaps for that, the clock could be stopped in Brexit negotiations.
Mr. Fraser, the former Foreign Office official, thinks it will go to the wire. “My experience of politics and diplomacy is that a deal will only be done when it really has to be done, at which point people often slightly reinvent the parameters,” he said.
But the alternative, according to Mr. Fraser, is that Brexit collapses under the weight of its own contradictions, leaving Britain in ferment.
“What the white paper has shown is evidence in black and white that there is no Brexit that is good for the U.K.,” he said. “We knew already that hard Brexit is economically very damaging. Now we also know that pragmatic Brexit is probably not negotiable, is hugely complex and leaves the country in no man’s land.”