
The Dutch government is hiring nearly 1,000 customs officials. Britain’s health agency is mulling how to ensure medicine supplies. Ireland is preparing border inspections for food shipments and even racehorses.
Call it contingency planning. Call it preparedness. Just try not to call it panic.
As Prime Minister Theresa May struggles to navigate 
The European Commission, the European Union’s executive arm, 
Banks 
But countries that conduct a lot of trade with Europe’s second-largest economy face a particular challenge: How to manage the massive flow of TVs, car parts, drugs and every other product that cross their borders to get to and from Britain.
Many have been preparing for a nightmare scenario in which Britain fails to negotiate an orderly departure from the European Union, a process known as Brexit, while assuming that a rosier outcome will prevail. That would involve keeping Britain tied to European regulations and customs arrangements, allowing goods to continue traveling easily across borders and safeguarding critical supply chains and jobs.
But the process has spiraled into utter confusion as hard-core supporters of a clean break from the European Union revolt against 
On Tuesday, she 
Britain’s neighbors are taking no chances.
The government had been hoping for an outcome along the lines presented by Mrs. May, which would let the Netherlands and other European countries keep moving goods across borders with only slightly more red tape than now.
A so-called hard Brexit, in which no such arrangement is made, would instead require strict new customs controls and a tangle of tariffs for each chocolate bar, computer or car part that passes through the Rotterdam port to and from Britain.
The Dutch are bracing for the worst.
“As far as we know, Brexit is happening,” said Erik Jeene, a spokesman for the Dutch finance ministry, which oversees spending for the customs authority. “Hard Brexit is still a possibility, so we are preparing.”
In addition to customs agents, the government is recruiting up to 90 veterinarians for animal and food inspection. New agents will have to have uniforms and other equipment. Warehouses to hold goods for inspection may be needed, adding to the nearly 35 million euro, or around $40 million, expense.
In the event of a hard Brexit, ships sailing to Rotterdam from Britain could no longer pass through a type of express lane for customs clearance. Instead, Mr. Jeene said, they would be diverted into a different lane reserved for vessels from so-called third countries, which are not part of the European Union and undergo more extensive inspections to ensure cargo meets strict regional standards.
“If we import apples from Germany, they can just cross the border,” Mr. Jeene said. “In a new situation for Britain, that wouldn’t be possible.” The customs inspection load could be enormous. “We’re talking about thousands of containers a day,” he said.
Other places that do big business with Britain are following suit. In 
Even Britain isn’t sure how to prepare: The government 
With Mrs. May’s plan rapidly careening off course, a clear answer looks increasingly out of reach.
“It’s not evident, or not obvious, that the government of Britain has the majority for any form of Brexit, quite frankly,” the Irish prime minister, Leo Varadkar, said Wednesday.
As a result, he said, he was ordering Irish government agencies to immediately 
As part of its contingency plans, Ireland is also considering whether to relocate part of the emergency oil stocks that it stores at British refineries back to Ireland or to other countries in the union, the Sunday Independent newspaper reported. A government spokesman said such stocks may be held only in European Union countries.
Brexit, even in its tidiest form, could create paralysis at the Channel Tunnel crossing between France and Britain. In the French city of Calais, the deputy mayor, Philippe Mignonet, has warned that Brexit could result in round-the-clock traffic jams, and an increased risk of migrants trying to smuggle themselves into waiting payloads.
France is accelerating the recruitment of up to 700 customs officers before Brexit. “The more we think the worst should be avoided, the more we think it’s not impossible it could eventually happen,” Prime Minister Édouard Philippe said last week.
On the British side, the government has floated converting a stretch of the M20 motorway in Kent, which runs to the coastal town of Dover, into a vast parking lot for trucks. If the country is no longer in the customs union, new delays in processing truck arrivals could 
Companies worried about supply chain disruptions are scrambling to cope. The European aerospace giant Airbus employs over 14,000 people in Britain making massive wings for its planes. Some parts must go back and forth between Britain and the European Union before final assembly. So any transport holdup could wreak havoc with production.
Tom Enders, the company’s chief executive, who threatened last month to leave Britain unless there was more clarity on Brexit, said on Wednesday that he was activating 
Other firms have been stockpiling goods to prepare for an Armageddon scenario. Warehouse space in Britain has been filling up at record rates as companies from electronics producers to appliance makers stock inventories to meet demand in case they cannot get supplies quickly, according to KPMG, the professional services firm.
Even Britain’s own Department of Health is examining how to ensure continuity in the supply chain for medicines, vaccines, radioisotope products and medical devices under different Brexit outcomes — including if the country comes crashing out, Simon Stevens, the chief executive of the National Health Service, told a parliamentary committee.
“Nobody,” Mr. Stevens said, “is suggesting that this is a desirable situation in which to find ourselves.”