
LONDON — When President Trump visits Britain
When it comes to making people feel that they don’t belong, nobody does it better than us. America may be the most powerful nation on earth, but Britain is still the snootiest.
We can be utterly charming when we choose. In 2011, when Barack Obama visited, we put on a great show. President Obama was cool and funny. He met Queen Elizabeth; he had a “sleepover” at Buckingham Palace; he was invited to address Parliament.
But back in 2011, Britain — and the world — was a different place. Nobody really talked about the European Union, aside from U.K. Independence Party bores. Our prime minister was David Cameron, a smooth, aristocratic former P.R. man, who was a conservative, but who revered Mr. Obama, as did most of the country.
Today, in 2018, Mr. Trump is poised to visit an altered nation. Two years ago, Britain voted to leave the European Union, in a referendum that reignited class war, pitting city dwellers against the countryside, the winners of globalization against the losers. Emotions are still raw, and the politics are still messy — witness this week’s 
And so began a year of false starts. Britain’s new prime minister, the more middle-class Theresa May, offered Mr. Trump a state visit early in his term; protests
This time, though, Mr. Trump really seems to be coming. In response, the Stop Trump coalition is planning what they’re 
It’s worth asking why France was better able to cope with Mr.
Perhaps it’s that France is simply less class-obsessed. To Britons of a certain milieu, Mr. Trump is a bit grubby, a bit common, a bit — as Nancy Mitford, that chronicler of elite British life, would put it — “non-U,” (that is, non-upper class).
It also helped that Mr. Macron saw off Marine Le Pen in the second round of the presidential election. France didn’t succumb to populism. Brexit Britain could only look on in envy, wondering what might have been. And now, many Britons see in Mr. Trump a reflection of the Brexit phenomenon, albeit a more orange and sordid one.
In preparation for his
Mr. Trump is not expected to meet the prime minister at Downing Street but will dine with her at her country retreat, Chequers. He is expected to avoid much of London, a city which has become a bastion of both anti-Brexit and anti-Trump sentiment. Instead, he is likely to visit Blenheim Palace, the Oxfordshire birthplace of Winston Churchill, and then head to Scotland to visit his golf course.
The Stop Trump campaign says it intends to “shine a light on Trumpism” in Britain. It also claims it has never taken a position on Brexit. There is, of course, genuine disgust at many of the president’s policies. But Britain is also a country grappling with a lot of its own political anxieties at the moment and it seems fair to wonder if there is some projection going on. 
Out of the hundred or so prominent 
But just because the Stop Trump movement, like the Stop Brexit movement, shouts loudest, it doesn’t mean it speaks for the nation. Quite a lot of Britons, like quite a lot of Americans, don’t abhor Mr. Trump and everything he stands for. Many would rather welcome him if only because it makes diplomatic sense.
In February, a YouGov poll found that 45 percent of Britons supported a state visit by
Many Britons recognize that Mr. Trump may still be a useful ally. We are snooty but we are also pragmatic. Britain could do with friends right now — even vulgar ones.
Lara Prendergast (