
LONDON — After nearly two years of bitter factionalism within her governing Conservative party over what terms Britain should seek in its divorce from the European Union, Prime Minister Theresa May summoned her cabinet to her country home on Friday and told her ministers either to support her compromise plan or resign, turn in their government cars and find their own way home.
Her threats appeared to work, up to a point. At the end of the day she announced that she had won agreement from her team to back a negotiating position in talks with Brussels that would keep Britain effectively tied to many European Union rules. In doing so, she faced down supporters of making a cleaner break from the bloc, and gave her country its clearest view yet of how she wants to steer Britain into a post-Brexit future.
It is not clear that the truce among Conservatives will last, especially since Mrs. May’s negotiating stance is unlikely to be accepted by European Union leaders in anything like its current form. But her victory allows her to move into a more serious round of talks with Brussels in an effort to reach a deal by March, when Britain will leave the bloc whether or not is has come to terms on a new relationship.
It was a pivotal moment for Mrs. May, who played up the drama in her effort to herd the more rebellious elements of her cabinet into line. Ministers arriving at Chequers, a 16th-century mansion northwest of London, were instructed to hand in their mobile phones and smartwatches on arrival. The 
In the end, her hard-line rivals, like Boris Johnson, the foreign secretary, decided that this was not the day for a showdown. The meeting ended with a declaration that the cabinet had agreed to seek “a common rule book for industrial goods and agricultural products.”
In effect, that means Britain would sign up for Europe’s rules for manufactured goods, food and other farm produce without being able to shape them. Services, like banking and finance — big component of the British economy — would be dealt with under a separate framework that would give Britain much more flexibility to set its own regulations.
Mrs. May’s plan envisions that Britain would no longer abide by the European demand for free movement of people across borders, a key demand of the most vociferous Brexit supporters and a position sure to draw intense opposition from Brussels. But it foresees allowing goods to flow more or less unimpeded across the border between Ireland, a member of the European Union, and Northern Ireland, which is part of the United Kingdom — a position that would go a long way toward solving one of the most intractable problems facing negotiators.
The statement said Britain would ensure that “no new changes in the future take place without the approval of our Parliament,” though it acknowledged that failing to incorporate rule changes into British law “would have consequences” — presumably ending some access to the bloc’s big market.
However, for Mrs. May, pushing her proposals through without the cabinet blowing up was a victory. She appeared to have convinced even the most recalcitrant members that economic necessity dictated hewing closely to some of the European Union’s rules.
Mrs. May hopes her plan can provide a basis for negotiations with the bloc’s other 27 member countries, which had grown frustrated over the political paralysis in London.
Certainly, Mrs. May’s plan represents a big reality check for proponents of Brexit who once argued that Britain would have the upper hand in withdrawal negotiations, gaining all the benefits of current membership in the single market while still enjoying the freedom to conduct an independent trade policy.
That sort of deal was never on offer from Brussels, where officials called it delusional on numerous occasions. A succession of warnings from big manufacturers, including Airbus and BMW, have recently underscored the crucial importance to big importers and exporters of keeping goods flowing easily through ports to and from continental Europe.
At the same time, Brexit hard-liners know that adhering to European Union rules would amount to the “great betrayal” they have been swearing never to countenance.
But their options 
Even a rash of resignations would not have guaranteed Mrs. May’s departure. If they blocked her new plans, they ran the risk that Parliament might then feel constrained to vote later this month to stay in the European Union’s customs union — an even more distasteful outcome.
Earlier, the cabinet office minister, David Lidington, had confirmed leaks in the British news media that Mrs. May’s proposal would include adherence to a common rule book for some sectors like industrial and agricultural goods in order to keep supply chains open and prevent food spoiling if stopped for frontier checks.
“I’m pretty confident we will end up with a concrete position which everybody is able to sign up to,” he told the BBC.
One person who will take a lot more persuasion is Michel Barnier, the European Union’s negotiator, who on Friday said that “in the Brexit negotiations there are still too many questions and too few answers.”
The new plan, scheduled to be published as a white paper next week, will be judged by Mr. Barnier both on practicalities and against the European Union’s red lines.
Mrs. May’s preferred customs plan is seen by most officials in Brussels as unworkable. More generally, the European Union has insisted all along that Britain will not gain access to the single market without accepting its core principles like the free movement of people, which Brexiteers abhor.
Mrs. May’s plans present other difficulties, for example, by differentiating between manufactured goods — which would be under Europe’s rule book — and services, which would have a more distant relationship.
Distinguishing between goods and services will become increasingly hard, for example, in the auto market as vehicles, which already sometimes come with loans or insurance deals, become increasingly reliant on digital technology.
Other thorny issues include the extent to which British manufacturers would be subject to Europe’s state aid rules (to prevent unfair competition), the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice — another institution loathed by Brexiteers — and European labor and environmental laws.
Friday’s declaration suggested that Britain would accept European antitrust rules but would want to set up new bodies to resolve trade disputes “founded on the principle that the court of one party cannot resolve disputes between the two.”
Brussels has so far insisted that Britain must either opt to stay in the single market fully — accepting free movement — or settle for a much more minimalist free trade deal like that with Canada. Mrs. May has always argued for something in between and has, in recent days, visited both the Dutch prime minister, Mark Rutte, and the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, to try to ensure that her plans are — if not exactly welcomed then — at least not dismissed out of hand.