
LONDON — Prime Minister Theresa May on Sunday revealed the advice President Trump had given her on how to negotiate Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union: Go straight to court.
Mrs. May was asked by the BBC about comments Mr. Trump made both in 
“He told me I should sue the E.U.,” Mrs. May said.
Her comments will most likely be seen as pushing back against Mr. Trump, who had criticized her for ignoring his suggestion and whose interview in The Sun embarrassed the prime minister just as she was rolling out the red carpet for his working visit to England, one that she had hoped would showcase the strength of trans-Atlantic ties.
At the news conference, Mr. Trump, without revealing what he had advised Mrs. May, said that she had seemed to regard his suggestion as too “brutal.”
Some hard-line supporters of the withdrawal, known as Brexit, have criticized Mrs. May as not being tough enough in talks with the bloc, and Mr. Trump’s remarks seemed to back them up.
Asked by the visibly surprised interviewer to repeat her account of Mr. Trump’s advice, Mrs. May, did so: “Sue the E.U.,” she said, smiling, “not go into negotiation, sue them. Actually, no, no, we are going into negotiations with them.”
Mrs. May did not provide details of what sort of legal case the American president had in mind, and it was not immediately clear what practical effects such an intervention would have.
Last week, Mrs. May published 
While he was still in his job, Mr. Johnson compared Mrs. May’s negotiating style, unfavorably, to that of Mr. Trump. And in The Sun interview, Mr. Trump suggested that Mr. Johnson, a Conservative Party rival of Mrs. May’s, would make a great prime minister.
On Sunday, Mrs. May seemed to suggest that Mr. Trump’s advice had not been completely consistent. “Interestingly, what the president also said at that press conference was, ‘Don’t walk away,’” she told the BBC.
During his long business career, Mr. Trump has been 
When he was elected president, at least 75 cases involving him or his companies were underway, according to USA Today, whose 
Sunday’s comments came at a politically sensitive moment for Mrs. May amid speculation that she could face a confidence vote in her leadership within her Conservative party, which is bitterly divided over her handling of Brexit talks.
Later on Sunday, Robert Courts 
Mr. Johnson is expected to increase the pressure on the prime minister in a newspaper article on Monday that is likely to expand on his reasons for resigning.
On Sunday, another hard-line supporter of Brexit, the Conservative lawmaker Jacob Rees-Mogg, called on Mrs. May to change policy, describing her as a “remainer” — someone who wanted Britain to remain in the European Union during Britain’s 2016 Brexit referendum — “who has remained a remainer.”
In her interview, Mrs. May was also asked about being seen holding Mr. Trump’s hand while they walked together on Friday, and she explained that the president takes “my hand to help in going up the steps.”
The prime minister rejected suggestions that this made her look submissive, asking her interviewer whether he could say that he had never helped someone in a similar way.