
what Mr. Trump said 
“In Germany, we have 52,000 troops.”
the facts
Mr. Trump may have also been counting the number of National Guard troops, reserve troops and civilian personnel in Germany, but he would still be off by a few thousand people. An estimated 47,500 Defense Department personnel are in Germany. 
what Mr. Trump said 
“We have left NATO with more money, with more unity, with more spirit, than NATO probably has ever had.” 
the facts
Member states of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization have increased spending on their own militaries since 2014. At an annual meeting this week in Brussels, the member states 
But NATO’s members, including the United States, are still spending less money than they did during the Cold War. 
Military spending across NATO is estimated to reach 2.4 percent of G.D.P. this year, according to a 
what Mr. Trump said 
“Well, if you remember, I was opening Turnberry the day before Brexit and we had an unbelievably large number of reporters there because everybody was there, I guess, because of Brexit and they all showed up on the ninth hole, overlooking the ocean, and I said what’s going on? And all they wanted to talk about was Brexit. They asked for my opinion. And I think you will agree that I said I think Brexit will happen, and it did happen.” 
the facts
Mr. Trump visited the Turnberry golf resort in Scotland on 
On June 22, the day before the Brexit vote, Mr. Trump was in New York, where he delivered a 
It is true that Mr. Trump supported Brexit before the June 23 vote and said in 
But his prediction did not occur at the golf resort in Scotland the day before the vote. 
Other claims
Mr. Trump also repeated several other claims during the news conference at Chequers, Mrs. May’s official country residence, that The New York Times has previously debunked: 
He misleadingly claimed that the United States pays “90 percent of the cost of NATO” (his figure is 
He falsely claimed that the United States has “become an oil exporter, which would not have happened under the past regime” (
He exaggerated the United States’ trade deficit with China as $500 billion (
He exaggerated the United States’ trade deficit with the European Union as $151 billion (
He claimed that North Korea has stopped nuclear testing and has blown up test sites (
He falsely claimed military spending by NATO members was “going down” before he became president (
He misleadingly claimed that Germany imports up to 70 percent of its energy from Russia (
Sources: Defense Manpower Data Center, NATO, The New York Times, Politico, ITV