
President Trump and Prime Minister Theresa May worked to avoid a political crisis after 
The president has never shown much affection for diplomatic norms and multilateral institutions, as he demonstrated at the NATO summit meeting this week, but Mrs. May chose to nurture the “special relationship” rather than allow his remarks to fracture it.
Here’s the latest:
• Mr. Trump and Mrs. May held private talks and a news conference, in which they tried to restore a sense of unity after the president’s devastating interview with the British tabloid The Sun. He then went to Windsor for tea with the queen.
• Mr. Trump told The Sun that Mrs. May’s approach to Brexit, as the withdrawal is often called, would almost certainly imperil a trade deal with the United States that Britain badly wants. But he retreated from that stance on Friday, saying that ties between the two countries were at the “highest level of special” and that she was doing a “fantastic job.”
• Mr. Trump said at an earlier news conference that “they like me a lot in the U.K.,” but 
• The New York Times has live coverage of his seven-day, three-nation trip, from our White House reporters and European correspondents. 
Mrs. May and Mr. Trump worked on Friday to repair the damage after she was left with a deepening political crisis and a diplomatic embarrassment by the interview with The Sun, published Thursday night.
With the “special relationship” thrown into doubt, Mr. Trump said that ties between the two were at the “highest level of special,” adding “this incredible woman right here is doing a fantastic job.”
Those comments were sharply at odds with his views expressed in his interview with The Sun, published as the president and the prime minister were having dinner. Mr. Trump castigated Mrs. May to The Sun for her approach to the British withdrawal from the European Union. He warned that it could jeopardize a much-sought trade deal for Britain.
But on Friday, he expressed the opposite view on Brexit and on trade. “I don’t know what they’re going to do,” Mr. Trump said, “but whatever you do is O.K. with me, that’s their decision.”
He also said the United States would work for a trade deal with Britain, though later in the news conference he remarked that it was a “tough decision,” but emphasized that he was most concerned about a fair deal on trade.
Mr. Trump complained the European Union treated the United States “horribly” and expressed frustration with what he said were “barriers that are beyond belief.”
transcript
“I didn’t criticize the prime minister. I have a lot of respect for the prime minister. Once the Brexit process is concluded and perhaps the U.K. has left the E.U., I don’t know what they’re going to do, but whatever you do is O.K. with me. That’s your decision.” “I heard the turn of phrase that the president used earlier. But let me be very clear about this: We will be leaving the European Union and we are leaving on the 29th of March, 2019.” “Boris Johnson, I think, would be a great prime minister. I also said that this incredible woman, right here, is doing a fantastic job, a great job. And I mean that.
Mrs. May is hoping to lay the groundwork for a trade deal with the United States, while negotiating a so-called soft exit from the European Union, sticking close to its rules on goods.
But in his 
If she pursues her Brexit strategy, the paper quoted him as saying, “then their trade deal with the U.S. will probably not be made.”
Speaking to The Sun, he described the prime minister’s approach to Brexit as “very unfortunate,” and said, “I actually told Theresa May how to do it, but she didn’t listen to me.”
He had much warmer words for Boris Johnson, the ambitious British politician who just quit as foreign minister in an open break with Mrs. May and who is seen as one of her primary rivals within the Conservative Party. Mr. Johnson, he said, would “make a great prime minister.”
For the president to criticize and politically undercut one of his closest international allies, on her home turf, was an extraordinary breach of protocol, but if anything seems clear at this point, it is that there is no reason to expect the expected.
On Friday, Mrs. May’s hard-line opponents used Mr. Trump’s comments to bolster their argument that the government’s Brexit plans should be torn up in favor of a cleaner break.
Speaking to the BBC, Jacob Rees-Mogg, a pro-Brexit Conservative lawmaker, argued that Mr. Trump had been “perfectly reasonable” and simply been reflecting the reality of the government’s proposals.
Alan Duncan, a minister of state at the Foreign Office, suggested that Mr. Trump had spoken to The Sun before reading the details of Mrs. May’s latest Brexit plan.
But Simon Fraser, formerly one of Britain’s most senior diplomats, described the president’s “patronizing put-down” of Mrs. May as “wholly outrageous.”
“Normally I don’t feel sorry for Theresa May,” Emily Thornberry, a foreign affairs spokeswoman for the opposition Labour Party, told Sky News. “I don’t think that feeling sorry for a prime minister is a very good look, but this morning I feel sorry for her.”
Mr. Trump and his wife, Melania, visited Windsor Castle on Friday afternoon, where they were hosted by Queen Elizabeth II, who greeted the pair in an outdoor ceremony in the castle’s quadrangle.
President Trump strolled the grounds with the 92-year-old monarch, reviewing the royal guard, but appeared to speak little throughout the ceremony. Before the meeting, Mr. Trump had expressed his admiration for the monarch and noted that his mother, a native of Scotland, was a fan of the queen.
Queen Elizabeth has met with 11 of the past 12 serving American presidents during her reign. (The exception was Lyndon B. Johnson.)
The group was not accompanied by the queen’s 97-year-old husband, Prince Philip, who at officially retired from royal duties last summer.
After the outdoor ceremony, the president and first lady had afternoon tea in the castle with the queen, before departing around 6 pm for Stansted airport.
Before Air Force One took off, Mr. Trump was interviewed by the British journalist Piers Morgan aboard the plane. Mr. Morgan tweeted that he had just finished a 30-minute interview with the president.
Mr. Trump now heads to Turnberry, a golf resort he owns in Scotland, where he will spend the weekend before travelling to Helsinki.
A famous American visited Windsor for an event at the castle with the royal family, and got a rapturous welcome from hordes of people proclaiming British-American unity.
That was two months ago. The American was Meghan Markle, not Mr. Trump.
In May, the High Street in Windsor was packed with royal wedding memorabilia and ecstatic fans of Ms. Markle and Prince Harry, many of them waving American flags. For Mr. Trump’s visit to Windsor on Friday, when he will have tea with the queen, the American flags were nowhere to be seen and the streets were quiet.
“Everyone was really excited during the royal wedding — Windsor welcomed visitors with open arms,” said Luisa Lee, 39, a commercial director who lives locally. “But now people think ‘He’s here, so what?’”
Apart from heavy security and some protesters, there were few signs that anything unusual was happening in Windsor. Outside a memorabilia store across the street from Windsor Castle, a party mask with a gloomy caricature of Mr. Trump stared down at an image of the beaming royal newlyweds, now the Duke and Duchess of Sussex.
“From a business point of view, they’ve closed the road, so we’re going to suffer,” said Kesavan Muthu, 50, a sales clerk at the store.
Not all of the locals were indifferent or disapproving about the president’s visit.
“I think it’s great that he comes here — I think he’s one of the good guys,” said Andy Brown, 50, who works in maintenance. “He’s brilliant, he says what he wants, and I’ll raise a glass for him.”
The most anticipated element of Britain’s “Stop Trump” protests, a giant orange balloon of Mr. Trump depicted as a pouting baby in a diaper and carrying a smartphone, took off Friday morning from Parliament Square in London and came back to earth a couple of hours later.
The main protests came in the afternoon, when thousands turned out for demonstrations in central London against Mr. Trump’s policies.
The balloon captured the imagination of some Trump critics — activists, tourists, and bystanders diverted from their commutes — who gathered around for its ascent, counting down from 10 as if it were a rocket launch.
“This is a victory,” said Leo Murray, an activist and the creator of the balloon. “People love it, he hates it and it’s driven him out of London.”
Anti-Trump protests have been organized for every stop of the president’s trip in Britain. More than 200 demonstrators gathered outside of Chequers, including two wearing giant papier-mâché heads with unflattering likenesses of the president and the prime minister.
Mr. Murray and others behind the inflatable “Trump Baby” have called the balloon a “symbol of resistance” aimed at giving Mr. Trump a clear message that he is not welcome in Britain.
“The only way to get through to him is to get down to his level and talk in a language he understands, one of personal insults,” Mr. Murray said.
But Lucy Lawson, an American living in Britain, said that while she opposed Mr. Trump’s policies, she considered the protest infantile.
“Why are people going down to his level?” she asked.
Ms. Lawson asked one of the organizers why they launched the balloon, knowing that Mr. Trump would not be in London.
“It’s going to swamp his Twitter feed,” Mr. Cottrell said. “There’s no way he doesn’t see this.”
If Mr. Trump was a bull in a china shop this week with NATO and Mrs. May, he was a bit more restrained when he and his wife, Melania, met Queen Elizabeth II at Windsor Castle.
Mrs. Trump was briefed on royal protocol ahead of the visit with the queen, her spokeswoman said. For first ladies, that would typically include briefings on how to curtsy, how to sit properly, and teatime etiquette.
It was unclear what preparation, if any, was given to the president.
Myka Meier, an expert in protocol and etiquette at Beaumont Etiquette, said in an email that there was no official code of behavior for meeting the queen, though tradition frowns on turning one’s back on the monarch or sitting before she does.
But there is one rule, she said: No touching.
“In the event that the queen extends a handshake to her guests, they may then reciprocate the gesture,” Ms. Meier wrote.
A person touching a royal can make headlines, as Michelle Obama did when she touched the queen in 2009. Jimmy Carter scandalized Britain by kissing the queen’s mother — on the lips, no less.
Grant Harrold, a former butler for several royal family members, advised keeping the conversation light — when in doubt, limit it to weather and the queen’s corgis, he said in an email. 
“No hand clasps or ongoing pumps,” Mr. Harrold wrote, “as we are meeting the Queen not pumping up a bicycle tire.” 
Mr. Trump is not the first American president to wade publicly into another country’s politics — not even the first to step into Britain’s.
In London in 2016, President Barack Obama 
An unwritten rule of international diplomacy states that the leader of one country should not try to influence the internal politics of another. The rule is broken often, but usually with an element of deniability — not out in the open.
Mr. Obama intervened with a different tone than Mr. Trump did. Mr. Obama even acknowledged that he might be crossing a line, explaining 
Ben Rhodes, a former Obama aide, wrote in his recent book, “The World As It Is,” that Mr. Cameron, who opposed Brexit, had asked Mr. Obama to make a statement against withdrawing from the bloc.
British newspapers, especially the tabloids, know a good story when they see one, and the release of Mr. Trump’s interview with The Sun dominated the front pages. A sampling of the headlines:
The Sun, which is owned by Rupert Murdoch’s News Corporation, proclaimed under a banner trumpeting the interview, “May has wrecked Brexit … deal is off!”
The Times of London, which is also owned by News Corporation but generally takes a more restrained approach, said, “Trump: May’s soft Brexit will kill chance of US trade deal.”
The Daily Mail described it as the “President’s Brexit Attack on May,” while another tabloid, the Daily Mirror, took a briefer approach: “Donald Thump.”
The Guardian has compiled a 