
I hoped this would happen, but I have to admit that I was doubtful.
On July 3, England, playing against Colombia, secured a spot in the World Cup’s quarterfinals for the first time since 2002. What’s more, the team did it by winning a penalty shootout, which they had 
Today, England faces Croatia for a spot in the final. I almost can’t believe it. I am beyond excited. 
Here’s the thing: Even if England loses today, this World Cup still feels like something of a triumph for England fans. Our team is, I’m sorry to say, known for screwing up. Reared on years of tragedy, we had very low expectations. 
So that’s why since the victory against Colombia, people in England have been 
At least that’s the impression I get from reading the newspapers, looking at social media and chatting with friends. I was born and raised in England, but I don’t live there anymore. Almost four years ago, I moved to Berlin. (I’ve 
This England team is particularly likable. An engaging, affable manager, Gareth Southgate, presides over a group of gifted, charismatic players. With an average age of 26, it’s the second-youngest squad in this year’s tournament. In short, they’re making me excited to see the English flag again.
Ah, that flag … a red cross on a white background. It’s known as the St. George Cross. My relationship with this symbol is best summed up by lyrics from Kendrick Lamar: “
The current England team, though, couldn’t be farther from the vision of the nationalists who like to wave that flag. Of the 11 players who started the game against Colombia, six had parents of non-English heritage. Southgate himself has emphasized this: “We are a team with our diversity and youth that represents modern England,” 
I agree — and I disagree. I think there are several modern Englands. There’s the England in which Southgate delights. But there’s also the England of The Daily Mail and The Sun, two of the country’s most-read newspapers, both of which routinely spout anti-immigrant invectives. (The Sun’s xenophobic headlines have even
I want Southgate’s England to win. That’s the one I’m cheering for. 
The last time Britain was so united — during the 2012 Olympics — was followed by 
That’s good enough for me, and a future I want to believe in. And frankly, if England can make it to a World Cup semifinal, anything is possible.