
Britain’s foreign secretary and its chief Brexit negotiator caused quite a stir 
This crisis took shape after Mrs. May summoned her ministers to her official retreat at Chequers on Friday and hammered out 
Not surprisingly, Mrs. May’s chief Brexit negotiator, David Davis, a proponent of a “hard Brexit,” quit on Sunday, along with his deputy. The greater shock came on Monday, when the flamboyant foreign secretary, 
The resignations immediately set off speculation about more defections, the potential fall of Mrs. May’s government and even new elections. All that could happen. But it is doubtful that hard-line Brexiteers in Mrs. May’s Conservative Party can muster the 48 votes that party rules require to force a vote of confidence, much less the votes needed to force her into a leadership contest (in which Mr. Johnson would be a potential candidate).
A greater certainty is that Mrs. May cannot continue to spin her wheels on Brexit, as she has been forced to do by the sharp divide in her own party and government. Britain will officially leave the union next March, but for the exit not to be a total disaster for Britain, the two sides need to agree on a broad 
Deliberately or not, therefore, Mrs. May called the hard-liners’ bluff at Chequers. Now if she survives the ensuing storm, she will no longer have to please Tories who ideologically oppose adherence to all of the union’s laws and regulations. That does not mean an agreement with the union is imminent or easy. Mrs. May’s new package is still far from anything the union can accept. And the hard-liners will not relent.
Yet an injection of common sense is welcome in a political fray that has defied all warnings, many of them from industries, of the enormous damage that would come from a break with the European Union, and especially of an abrupt and uncontrolled break. It raised the possibility of an extension of the Brexit deadline, and, among ardent opponents of a break, even hopes of a new referendum (rejected, for now, by Mrs. May).
“I can only regret that the idea of #Brexit has not left with Davis and Johnson,” 
President Trump, who arrives 