
Good morning.
In five days, the British Parliament will finally have a chance to vote on the withdrawal deal that Prime Minister Theresa May, after an ulcer-inducing two years of shuttle diplomacy, brokered with the European Union. What happens if, as is widely expected, her deal is rejected by a sizable margin?
The technical term, my informants in Westminster tell me, is “absolute chaos.”
Up to this point, the fate of Brexit was between two relatively predictable players, Britain and the E.U. Now it lies in the hands of a fragmented Parliament, with clusters of lawmakers fiercely committed to disparate solutions — halting Brexit altogether, leaving the E.U. without a deal or using this crisis to kick out Mrs. May’s Conservative government.
On a 
All of which is to say: Don’t worry if you’re confused. At the London bureau of The New York Times, we sweat paracetamol.
(1) She could go back to Brussels later in the week and negotiate face-saving changes to the current plan; (2) the government could pivot to a softer Brexit known as the “Norway model”; (3) the government could plunge toward a “no-deal” Brexit, with potentially severe economic costs; (4) the country could hold a second referendum, risking the fury of the Britons who turned in a 52 percent majority in favor of leaving the E.U.; or (5) the country could hold a new election.
Thursday is the third of five days of debate in Parliament leading up to the vote. Since the proceedings are streamed live (
Mrs. May, nothing if not dogged, has weathered 
But her power over the process ebbed away this week, when rebel lawmakers 
See you tomorrow. — Ellen
No one has shaped today’s Europe more than Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, who has led her country for 13 years and steered the continent through successive crises.
But as Ms. Merkel’s party, the Christian Democrats, gathers this week to choose her successor as party leader, some are asking whether her decisions to embrace more than a million asylum seekers and impose harsh economic austerity on European neighbors — especially Greece — 
“I know my face is polarizing,” she said during a recent visit to an eastern German city where far-right protests broke out this year.
NASA’s InSight spacecraft 
Seismology is a well-developed field. It’s the source of much of our knowledge about the Earth’s own innards.
An earthquake’s vibrations run around and through the planet, speeding up, slowing down, bending — all depending on the properties of the material they pass through.
Data from seismic monitors around the world are the foundation for the understanding we have now of the Earth’s structure: 
InSight will monitor marsquakes from just one location. The instrument should be able to identify a vibration that has circled Mars multiple times, and clever analysis should yield the equivalent of data from multiple stations.