
CALAIS, France — Serge Orlov, a 62-year-old Briton, likes to rail against what he calls the tyranny of the European Union. Like most supporters of his country’s withdrawal from the bloc, he wants Britain to strike out on its own, a fully sovereign state unshackled from Europe’s pettifogging rules and the Continent’s overweening state.
But faced with excruciating pain and a seemingly endless wait for a knee replacement, Mr. Orlov temporarily shelved his euroskepticism to take advantage of a little known National Health Service program and jump to the head of the line — in France.
After waiting a year just for the possibility of the knee replacement he badly needed, he turned to 
“Waiting, it’s just miserable,” he said, describing how he had been shuttled to five different hospitals in Britain over more than eight months. Waiting rooms are “full of sick people,” he said, adding swiftly, by way of explanation, “I can be a grumpy old git.”
Mr. Orlov, who has Russian-Italian ancestry, is among a rapidly growing number of British patients who are crossing the English Channel to seek medical treatments — mostly elective surgeries — in France.
Given that the Brexit vote was largely won on highly emotive issues surrounding British sovereignty and a 
“I find something quite ironic about it,” he readily admitted. “I think it’s hilarious, actually.”
After years of austerity, 
To cope, the N.H.S. has been quietly outsourcing some surgeries to three hospitals in France for the last year or so. It is a little-known partnership, because the N.H.S. is not eager to advertise the measures it is being forced to take.
But as more people join Mr. Orlov in crossing the English Channel — and with a predictable but 
Mr. Orlov was only Calais Hospital’s 15th patient under the program, but it has received 450 inquiries from British patients over six weeks, after fielding fewer than 10 a month previously. With 500 beds and a surgery ward with an occupancy rate of 70 percent, the hospital could treat as many as 200 N.H.S. patients a year, officials said.
Mr. Orlov marveled that he had a spacious private room in the French hospital, with a window looking out on some greenery and a television set that offered the BBC. Parking is free, he exclaimed several times. “And the food is pretty good,” he said as an afterthought. “I’ve got to say, I’m not averse to French cooking.”
Hospitals in Britain “are so old they should be museums,” he said. “It’s shocking what’s going on.”
N.H.S. England’s outsourcing deal has technically little to do with 
“Let’s hope the talks don’t speed up too quickly though, I want to get this done first, and ideally the second one,” Mr. Orlov added, half seriously, referring to negotiations about the terms of Britain’s departure.
He asked that his surgeon not be told that he had voted for Brexit — just yet. “I’m happy to tell him when he’s finished carving me up, but certainly not beforehand,” he whispered. “I do have my second knee.”
(“Oh, la la,” Martin Trelcat, the director of Calais Hospital, groaned in mock outrage when he heard he had a Brexit supporter on his hands. “It’s time for a new vote,” he joked.)
Britain has about 340 available beds per 100,000 inhabitants, compared with a European Union average of 515, 
Britain spends almost 8 percent of its gross domestic product on health care, slightly less than France and Germany, and the share is forecast to fall to about 6.8 percent by 2020, 
Estimates from the King’s Fund, an organization that researches the British health care system, suggest that 
But Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt argues that pressures on the N.H.S. are increasing not because of a lack of funding but partly because people are going to emergency rooms when they have bad colds or other minor afflictions.
This winter, people have been left on trolleys in corridors, in scenes of chaos some have likened to “war zones.” Patients in emergency wards sometimes waited up to 12 hours to get treated. The situation generally comes to a head every winter — so much so that the “winter crisis” has almost become an annual tradition. But even Mr. Hunt admitted that this year’s was the worst, and the British Red Cross declared the situation a “humanitarian crisis.”
Mr. Trelcat, the hospital director, said that the most likely explanation is that Britons are more patient than the French. “We don’t understand how you can delay so many operations that make many patients suffer,” he said. “A knee replacement that is delayed for one year — in France, it just can’t happen. It takes a maximum of one month here.”
The N.H.S. 
But Calais Hospital representatives said that in private meetings, N.H.S. officials had told them they wanted to enter a partnership because many of its hospitals were old but had little chance of being refurbished or improved soon.
The delays are a “sign of failure” of the N.H.S., Britain’s national pride, Mr. Trelcat said. The limited publicity about the deal may stem from an “embarrassment that most certainly comes from the fact that our hospitals are so reliable,” he added.
N.H.S. officials who visited Calais Hospital were probably “not aware of the gap between a standard British hospital and a standard French hospital,” he continued.
Mr. Orlov proffered his own explanation for the N.H.S.’s reticence to advertise the possibility of treatment abroad. “I don’t know if it’s a breakdown in communication,” he said, “or because the N.H.S. doesn’t like the idea of parting with the hard cash and bringing it to France.”
Either way, he said, "it’s shocking.”