
Good morning.
One indication of just how weird things have gotten for the British government is a scene that appeared on a Thursday evening news broadcast.
It involved the prime minister’s chief whip, a much-feared party enforcer who, by long tradition, steers clear of the news media. (One recent occupant of the post kept a live tarantula named Cronus on his desk.)
Their exchange is along these lines:
Whip: “Are you feeling any better about the deal on Tuesday? Have we got your support?”
Lawmaker: “No.”
Whip: “O.K.”
Lawmaker: “In a word.”
This is a familiar challenge in negotiations. Game theorists like to use the example of the conquistador Hernán Cortés, who in 1519 attacked the coast of Mexico with a small force. To ensure that Spanish troops would not retreat in the face of a large Aztec counterattack, Cortés ordered them to burn their ships, leaving them no alternative to victory in battle.
“She should say, ‘Dear Brexiteers, your ships are burning, they are gone,’” Marcus Schreiber, an economist who uses game theory to advise executives on negotiations, said of Mrs. May.
More than 100 Conservative lawmakers have said they will vote against 
If Mrs. May’s proposal loses narrowly, a tweaked version of the deal might pass. If it loses by more than 100 votes, her days as prime minister could be numbered.
Our reporter Ben Mueller traveled to Sunderland, a deprived northern city that served as a bellwether on referendum day, voting 61 percent to 39 percent to leave the E.U. 
“The City of London’s protected at all costs,” said one man, bitterly, “but that’s no good for us on the outposts of England.”
See you on Monday. — Ellen
President Trump, who has made border security and the fight to protect American jobs a cornerstone of his presidency, has a history of relying on immigrants at his golf and hotel properties. Now two women who worked for years at Trump National Golf Club in Bedminster, N.J., tell The New York Times that the club’s staff 
One of the women, Victorina Morales of Guatemala, said she was hurt by Mr. Trump’s public comments about immigrants since he became president.
“We are tired of the abuse, the insults, the way he talks about us when he knows that we are here helping him make money,” said Ms. Morales, whose duties include making the president’s bed and cleaning his toilet.
You may have read that the Bank of England 
There have been many suggestions: the former prime minister Margaret Thatcher, the mathematician Alan Turing and the physicist Stephen Hawking.
One lesser-known name caught our attention: Noor Inayat Khan, who spied for Britain during World War II.
Ms. Khan wasn’t what one would expect of a British spy. She was born a princess to Indian royalty, and she was a musician and a writer. But she spoke French and had excellent radio skills. She became the first female radio operator sent by Britain into occupied France.
She did the work of six radio operators, moving constantly and dyeing her hair blond to avoid detection. Her work became crucial to the war effort.
Ms. Khan never made it home; she was captured and executed at the Dachau concentration camp in 1944. She was 30.