
Those are some of the dire possibilities raising alarms in Britain after the government 
For months, Brexit supporters have urged Prime Minister Theresa May, above, to prepare for such a scenario to strengthen her negotiating position with the bloc. But to the public, the official warning documents being published for businesses and consumers sound ominously reminiscent of rationing during World War II.
Meanwhile, Britain’s new foreign secretary, Jeremy Hunt, was in Beijing to try to strengthen trade with China as Brexit plans unfold. In a public gaffe, Mr. Hunt 
_____
Mr. Manafort 
In his lobbying on behalf of Ukraine, Mr. Manafort worked closely with 
In other Washington news, Mr. Trump said that he would be willing to 
_____
That’s Sand Van Roy, above, an actress who accuses the French filmmaker Luc Besson of sexual abuse. Mr. Besson is 
Not so.
Reaction in French film circles has been muted: There was no industry housecleaning, no rallying cry for change. It was another example of how #MeToo has played out differently in France.
_____
Known for its handmade ceramics, Grottaglie is home to one of Virgin Galactic’s launchpads for suborbital flights. For $250,000, space tourists can take in vistas of the curvature of the Earth and experience minimum gravity for about five minutes.
On Monday, Italy’s prime minister, Giuseppe Conte, used a news conference with President Trump at the White House to talk about “launching, as soon as possible, new planes that, crossing the atmosphere, will be able to connect Italy and the United States in an hour and a half.”
“No one’s laughing anymore,” said Michele Emiliano, the region’s president.
• 
• 
• 
• 
Fifty years ago today, Charles M. Schulz introduced the first black character in his long-running comic strip, “Peanuts.”
The character, named Franklin, was created after a teacher in Los Angeles named Harriet Glickman 
“I’ve been asking myself what I can do to help change those conditions in our society which led to the assassination and which contribute to the vast sea of misunderstanding, hate, fear and violence,” she wrote.
She proposed that Mr. Schulz add a black character to his popular comic.
Mr. Schulz was initially hesitant, worried that black parents might think he was condescending. But he eventually wrote back to Glickman, “I have drawn an episode which I think will please you.”
Franklin was met by praise from many, but a few newspapers in the South 