
Facing the prospect of a humiliating defeat, Prime Minister Theresa May said she 
After weeks of bitter criticism and days of debate in Parliament, it was clear her plan would be rejected by “a significant margin,” Mrs. May said in an unscheduled address to Parliament. Above, anti-Brexit protesters.
Although she appears to have the authority to unilaterally postpone the vote, there was opposition to such a move — adding yet more uncertainty to the process.
So what comes next? 
_____
Huawei’s chief financial officer, who is accused of fraud by U.S. authorities, was 
Regardless of the outcome, much of the damage is already done. Ms. Meng’s arrest has ignited fear among China’s liberal-minded, tech-savvy elite, many of whom once studied and worked in the U.S., writes 
And as the American government grows increasingly skeptical of China’s technology world, it risks pushing important allies who share Western values closer to the Communist Party. Already, the arrest has fueled heightened patriotic rhetoric and distrust of the U.S.
_____
U.S. stocks swung from gains to losses and back again, 
Markets in Europe and Asia ended their Monday trading sessions down.
In London, the FTSE 100 ended the day about 0.8 percent lower, and the pound fell.
_____
But just how much do these companies know?
According to 
One person was tracked traveling with the New York City mayor. Another was tracked staying at her ex-boyfriend’s house.
And though these companies claim the data is anonymous, those with access to the raw data can easily identify and track someone without their consent.
The data collected is often beyond what most American users think they’ve consented to and is sold to advertisers, retail outlets and even hedge funds. (Location data companies exist around the world, though Europeans enjoy more privacy protections than Americans.)
_____
•
One of the streets of Paris that has been overtaken by violent demonstrations in the past month is the Boulevard Haussmann.
Stretching through the city’s Eighth and Ninth Arrondissements, the boulevard is named for Baron Georges-Eugène Haussmann, above, who defined the look of modern Paris.
In the mid-19th century, Haussmann began 
Haussmann was given immense power by Napoleon, the nephew of Napoleon Bonaparte, and his plan cleared away the overcrowded neighborhoods of central Paris, which had become a breeding ground for disease and social unrest.
The project, which also included new parks, a sewage system and other infrastructure, turned the city into an enormous construction site from the 1850s to the 1870s.
Met with increasing criticism, Haussmann was dismissed in 1870 and died 21 years later. But his work wasn’t finished until 1927, when the boulevard that bears his name was completed.