
Prime Minister Theresa May’s government is swaying on a cliff’s edge. The surprise resignations of two cabinet ministers 
“Am I going to see this through?” Mrs. May said at a news conference, above, phlegmatic after Thursday’s pummeling, as the fate of the United Kingdom seemed to swirl around her. “Yes.”
The clock is running down to Brexit in March, with no clear alternative to her plan and perhaps no time for one. Yet in Parliament, many declared it dead on sight or demanded a second referendum on Brexit, as Mrs. May rose again and again to declare her determination to leave the bloc.
The pound 
Why is Britain finding it so hard to leave the E.U.? 
_____
The Trump administration announced 
The sanctions came just hours after Saudi Arabia’s public prosecutor said he was requesting 
The prosecutor also said that the 15-man team sent to confront Mr. Khashoggi had orders to return him to the kingdom, but decided on the spot to kill and dismember him — changing the kingdom’s story yet again, and contradicting Turkish and U.S. findings.
The twin announcements from Riyadh and Washington may be part of an ongoing effort in both capitals to close the case.
But Turkey’s foreign minister, who has called for an international investigation, declared the latest Saudi explanation “unsatisfying.”
_____
Nikola Gruevski, a former prime minister of Macedonia who ran the country as 
Prime Minister Viktor Orban of Hungary, above left with Mr. Gruevski in 2013, was unable to explain the comparatively unforgiving treatment meted out to migrant asylum seekers — “ask the lawyers,” he said.
Also unexplained: how Mr. Gruevski got out of Macedonia at all.
Mr. Orban’s party said that “Nikola Gruevski is persecuted and threatened by the current Macedonian government, which is under the influence of George Soros,” a reference to the billionaire philanthropist who has become an all-purpose scapegoat for the global right — and even for Facebook (
Outraged, the Macedonian government demanded Mr. Gruevski’s extradition. The small Balkan nation is in the final stages of a wrenching political battle to change its official name, to clear a path for joining NATO. Mr. Gruevski’s party, which is friendly with Russia and Hungary, has opposed the name change.
_____
At a criminal trial in Ireland, a man was accused of raping a 17-year-old girl in a muddy alleyway. In closing arguments, his lawyer offered a ghastly, age-old defense: that the girl had invited the attack with her attire.
“You have to look at the way she was dressed,” the lawyer said, referring to her underwear. “She was wearing a thong with a lace front.”
The man was acquitted, 
• 
On Fridays, The Times publishes a news quiz, which our U.S. briefing writer, Chris Stanford, compiles with the help of a colleague, Anna Schaverien.
Chris writes:
My days are spent scanning headlines and synthesizing the news, and the quiz represents an alternative way to keep you caught up.
Our questions draw on the biggest stories of the week (including sports and pop culture, to the consternation of some readers).
Coming up with the incorrect answers for the multiple choice can be challenging.
We’ve enjoyed your comments. One reader said she competed with her husband and son every week. Another noted, “I LOVE ️this quiz. It can be really tough. Egad!!!”
“You must be great at Trivial Pursuit,” wrote another.
The single most common question we get about the quiz is where to find it. We have an easy answer: 