
Good morning.
This was expected to be a week of fireworks in British politics, as Parliament was finally getting a chance to vote on Prime Minister Theresa May’s Brexit deal, and Monday morning was spent in a jittery countdown.
“Right everyone, this may be the most exciting week of Brexit,” the legal commentator David Allen Green 
I had already left for lunch when it emerged, via multiple unattributed leaks, that Mrs. May had decided at the last minute 
“We’re just standing here, trying to come up with something to say,” she said.
Mrs. May will travel to Brussels in the coming days in hopes of returning with concessions that will placate Parliament, but this seems to be a “last, desperate throw of the dice,” my colleague Stephen Castle reports. Her enemies are circling: Lawmakers from her Conservative Party could mount a leadership challenge, or Parliament could call for a vote of no confidence in her government.
The main thing keeping Mrs. May in her post, at this moment, is the lack of any palatable alternative.
It was not until 2016 that Mr. Farage’s initiative 
The cause was propelled by a great surge of nostalgia — 
“There are some people who think this dog’s dinner of a deal is my fault, because I pushed for Brexit,” he said. “To which I robustly respond by saying this is not the Brexit, or anything like the one I would have gone for.”
I’m guessing the vote won’t be rescheduled until January. This prediction is based on inside knowledge that the British are 
A contrite President Emmanuel Macron 
His hand was forced by a month of rampaging protests in Paris and other cities by the so-called Yellow Vests, a loose movement furious over the daily struggle to get by. Above, protesters watching the speech in Gaillon, France. 
Mr. Macron, trying to shed his image as an insular and self-regarding emissary of elites, held a flurry of meetings with unions and others. He then reached out in his speech to strapped retirees and “the single mother, a widow, a divorcée” who “has no more hope,” offering a raft of relief proposals set to be further detailed today. 
Some Yellow Vests welcomed the speech, but many others complained that Mr. Macron put forward half-measures, and analysts suggested he would have to do more to quell unrest. 
One of the streets of Paris that has been overtaken by violent demonstrations in the past month is the Boulevard Haussmann.
Stretching through the city’s Eighth and Ninth Arrondissements, the boulevard is named for Baron Georges-Eugène Haussmann, who defined the look of modern Paris.
In the mid-19th century, Haussmann, pictured above, began 
Haussmann was given immense power by Napoleon, the nephew of Napoleon Bonaparte, and his plan cleared away the overcrowded neighborhoods of central Paris, which had become a breeding ground for disease and social unrest.
The project, which also included new parks, a sewage system and other infrastructure, turned the city into an enormous construction site from the 1850s to the 1870s.
Met with increasing criticism, Haussmann was dismissed in 1870 and died 21 years later. But his work wasn’t finished until 1927, when the boulevard that bears his name was completed.