
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning. 
Thank you for all the feedback on our special Brexit section of the briefing over the last week. You may have noticed some other changes — we’ve been working on ways to make the briefing even better. 
Now, on to the news: A no-confidence vote is planned for Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain, there was a possible terrorist shooting in the French city of Strasbourg, and the Arctic is on track for its second-warmest year on record. Here’s the latest: 
Britain’s beleaguered prime minister 
Under the party’s rules, Mrs. May needs to win 158 votes from among the 315 Conservative members of Parliament to stay as party leader and therefore prime minister. If she does so, then party members cannot mount another challenge to her leadership for a year, but if she loses the vote, then she withdraws and another leader will be chosen over the coming weeks.
But European leaders expressed resistance to further negotiations. “There is no room whatsoever for renegotiation,” said Jean-Claude Juncker, the president of the European Commission. 
An armed man previously flagged as a threat by the French authorities 
It’s not just the concerns over terrorism or Brexit. Mass protests in France have dashed hopes for a handoff of pan-European leadership from Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to the French president, Emmanuel Macron. 
Populism is still potent, and the E.U. also faces a fraying alliance with the U.S., a budget fight with Italy, Russian aggression, increasing authoritarianism in Hungary and Poland, and shaky or coalition-less parliaments across the bloc. 
The Arctic has been warmer over the last five years than at any time since records began in 1900, and the region is 
An official with the agency said that increasing air and ocean temperatures were “pushing the Arctic into uncharted territory.” 
The president, in an extraordinary public altercation at the White House on Tuesday, 
The testy back-and-forth in the Oval Office with the Democrats’ congressional leaders, Representative Nancy Pelosi, above left, and Senator Chuck Schumer, right, heightened concern that the two sides might not reach an agreement on spending bills to keep the government running by a Dec. 21 deadline.
A heated session of British Parliament turned to chaos on Monday night when a member of the House of Commons 
The mace represents the crown’s authority, and Parliament can’t sit or pass laws without it.
Traditionally, the person in charge of guarding the mace — and restoring order in rare mace-snatchings — is the 
The sergeant’s role, which 
You can’t miss the sergeant — the 
After Monday’s breach of protocol, the troublemaking lawmaker 