
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
The British Parliament is scheduled to vote on the government’s Brexit agreement tomorrow. So the practical-minded people of this green and pleasant isle have sorted it all out, right?
Er, no.
Let us review the events of the weekend.
On Sunday, thousands of angry right-wing Brexiteers 
They do not like Prime Minister Theresa May’s deal. 
One man trundled along a 10-foot scaffold and hangman’s noose, telling a reporter, “That’s what the traitor May deserves.” A few blocks away, there was an even larger march of left-wingers upset about the right-wingers, carrying a banner that read “Smash fascism.”
All indications are that Mrs. May is headed for a thumping loss on Tuesday, with more than 100 of her own party members promising to vote against the deal. Some of her advisers are urging her to postpone the showdown. A heavy loss would thrust Britain into uncharted territory, with disparate possible outcomes: Mrs. May’s removal, a general election, a second referendum, or an economically jarring “no-deal” exit from the E.U. on March 29.
When we asked one of our visual editors, Allison McCann, to lay out these possibilities in graphic form, she returned several days later with sketches of a decision tree gone wild. 
Over the weekend, she offered a rare glimpse into her inner life, 
Depending on what happens this week, historians will begin to situate Mrs. May on the continuum of British leaders, somewhere between Anthony Eden (worst) and Winston Churchill (best). 
“It’s not enough to turn around after two and a half years and say, ‘I’m a unifier,’” said Ian Dunt, the author of “Brexit: What the Hell Happens Now?”
The situation provides the perfect opening for the leader of the opposition, Jeremy Corbyn, to step in with moral guidance, right? Not exactly.
My colleague Stephen Castle 
After Parliament votes on Mrs. May’s withdrawal agreement, Mr. Corbyn’s time for prevarication will run out. Steve Fielding, a political historian, bets he would back a second referendum.
“If it comes to it, he will support it,” he said. “Because, by that point, he is out of options and to say ‘no’ is almost impossible.” And so, readers, onward to Tuesday’s vote. Pass me the peanut butter, and a spoon.
See you tomorrow. — Ellen 
In the early months of the Trump administration, Mr. Kushner, the president’s son-in-law and Middle East adviser, had private, informal conversations with Saudi Arabia’s crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, according to three former senior American officials, who worry that Mr. Kushner has opened himself to manipulation. Above, Prince Mohammed with Mr. Kushner and Ivanka Trump in Riyadh last year.
Despite resistance from senior American officials, the exchanges continued even after Oct. 2, when the dissident Jamal Khashoggi was killed and dismembered at the Saudi Consulate in Istanbul. Since the murder, Mr. Kushner has been the prince’s most important defender in the White House.
This evening in Stockholm, Nobel laureates will feast on a banquet with Swedish royalty after receiving their Nobel Prizes. It’s one of many traditions associated with 
But another — in which laureates are awoken at the Grand Hotel Stockholm by girls in white carrying candles — may be fading into history.
The ceremony reflects an annual Swedish 
But a manager at the hotel said that this year’s edition had been canceled “due to fire risk” in the laureates’ rooms. A version will still take place in the lobby and one of the hotel’s restaurants.
Not every Nobel laureate has enjoyed the wake-up call.
When white-clad maidens came to the American novelist 
“I scowled, and then my face formed the smile which is obligatory on such occasions,” he later 