
The European Union proposed on Wednesday that, unless other solutions are found, Northern Ireland will remain in a customs union with the European Union and, for all intents and purposes, the single market as well, when Britain leaves the bloc.
The purpose, as outlined in a draft document, is to ensure that there will be no “hard border” between Ireland and Northern Ireland after the British withdrawal, known as Brexit. That drew a rebuke from Prime Minister Theresa May, who rejected the idea out of hand.
Here is a guide to why this issue is seemingly so intractable, and how it might be settled or otherwise dealt with.
The 
The frontier issue is so tricky because, under the Northern Irish peace process, the border between Northern Ireland and Ireland has melted away, with checkpoints dismantled to reduce sectarian tensions.
The return of a “hard” border might threaten to undermine the Good Friday agreement that has reduced sectarian conflict in the North. And that is exactly what some fear Brexit will do, unless Britain remains part of the European Union’s single market and a customs union — an option that Mrs. May ruled out at the beginning of the withdrawal process.
In December, a 
Its executive, the European Commission, published a 
European officials say they are putting into legal language 
Hence the fallback option, now written into the draft protocol, of “maintaining full alignment with those rules of the Union’s internal market and the customs union” that support cooperation with Ireland as laid out under the 1998 Belfast, or Good Friday, agreement.
Speaking in Parliament, Mrs. May described the proposals as a threat to her country’s “constitutional integrity,” while one of her former ministers, David Jones, told the BBC that the European Union was using the Brexit talks to try to “annex” Northern Ireland.
They worry that if Northern Ireland stays largely within the European Union’s customs union and single market while mainland Britain quits them, a new economic frontier will be created down the middle of the Irish Sea.
That would be a problem for any London government, because a majority of people in Northern Ireland want to stay in the United Kingdom, but it is particularly poisonous for Mrs. May. That is because her minority government depends on the support of Northern Ireland’s hard-line 
To make matters trickier, 
Wednesday’s text is only a draft, but European Union leaders want agreement on it before starting full-scale talks on a trade deal with Britain.
Mrs. May could still retreat, however. On Wednesday she appeared to rule out British membership in a customs union, saying it would betray Brexit voters. But she is due to make a speech on Friday in which she might 
Britain could also somehow devise those elusive plans for technological solutions for the frontier, though there is no convincing example anywhere in the world. Britain’s foreign secretary, Boris Johnson, made matters worse on Tuesday by comparing the Irish border to that between two London boroughs where a congestion charging scheme operates. (Then, a 
Mrs. May’s other option is to play hardball and hope that the national leaders of the European Union retreat from the position proposed on Wednesday, at least allowing this issue to be fudged a little longer.
Next stop: Brussels, where the two sides are to meet toward the end of March, by which time the date of Brexit will be little more than 12 months away.