
It wasn’t the electoral sweep the Democrats were hoping for. But in Tuesday’s midterm elections in the U.S. — with unusually high participation, and characterized by President Trump as a referendum on himself — the Democratic Party 
In the Senate, Republicans 
In Georgia, Stacey Abrams was 
Faced with a Democratic-controlled House, Mr. Trump may now have to choose between escalating the partisan warfare in Washington or trying to reach across the aisle, 
Our reporters have 
_____
The political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica, if it weren’t already bankrupt, would be hit with a major fine for purloining the Facebook data of tens of millions of users to aid Donald Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign, according to a 
The data was harvested to create profiles of voters.
Another finding: An insurance company owned by Arron Banks, above center, the so-called godfather of Britain’s withdrawal from the E.U., improperly shared private email addresses to be sent pro-Brexit campaign messages.
Mr. Banks is 
_____
As a teenager, Johann Rehbogen, above with a cane, was a guard at the Stutthof concentration camp in Germany during World War II.
He is 94, but because of his age at the time, his trial on charges of assisting in the murder of hundreds of the 60,000 people who died at the camp 
If convicted, he could go to prison for up to 10 years. 
The case reflects a big change in the German justice system. A 2011 precedent has allowed charges against low-ranking Nazis who would have had knowledge of war crimes.
_____
The Saudi-led coalition 
Warplanes have hit the capital, Sana, as well as a port city, Hudaydah, while ships carrying emergency grain wait to dock. Above, anti-Houthi forces outside the city.
The Saudis may be trying to rack up gains before any peace talks, which the U.S. is now urging.
• 
We finally reviewed the 1978 horror classic “Halloween” 
Forty years ago, The New York Times was 
A parody “
The Times returned on Nov. 6 with an “88 Days in Review” special section. In the time the newspaper was away, 
Sports ran a 
But then it was back to business in baseball, with 