
Jean-Claude Juncker, the president of the European Commission, set a somber mood on Sunday as the leaders of European Union countries 
Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain is offering a kind of middle path that leaves many cold. Her own Conservative Party is divided and the Labour Party is opposed, and she may not have enough votes in the British Parliament, which is expected to vote on the plan before Christmas.
Under the terms, Britain gets until at least December 2020 to work out the details of the divorce; in the meantime it would be out of the E.U. but still adhere to its rules and regulations. The biggest snag: how the plan averts a hard border between Ireland and Northern Ireland, where Mrs. May’s coalition partners are rebelling.
What could happen next? 
_____
The Ukrainian Parliament 
Ukraine and Russia are in a standoff over disputed waters near annexed Crimea. After giving a different account, Russia acknowledged it had detained several Ukrainian Navy vessels and their sailors. Ukraine said six sailors had been injured in what it called an attack by jet fighters.
The portion of the Black Sea where the confrontation unfolded is a swirl of contested borders and disputed rights to access the narrow Kerch Strait, which connects the Black and Azov Seas. Russia blocked the strait with a cargo ship. Above, the ship on Sunday obstructing passage under a bridge between the Russian mainland and the Crimean peninsula, with Russian jet fighters overhead.
_____
How did Origo, a once-independent Hungarian news outlet that featured exposés of politicians, become yet another government cheerleader? 
The far-right government of Prime Minister Viktor Orban, above, stacked the courts, gerrymandered Parliament and co-opted much of the press so that Hungarian democracy has been hollowed out, slowly and subtly.
When it came to Origo, the government used a mix of suasion and strong-arming, often behind closed doors, to get the website’s German owner to curtail investigations and, finally, to sell it to government allies in a purchase funded with government money in 2015.
That year, Mr. Orban’s allies controlled 31 media outlets, according to an investigative news website. Now the number is more than 500.
_____
There’s an odd sort of night life in Baile Tusnad, a rundown spa town in eastern Transylvania, and it’s centered on dumpsters. After restaurants close at 11 p.m., residents and tourists gather to 
Above, volunteer firefighters scaring away a mother bear.
The large bear population is partly thanks to Nicolae Ceausescu, the country’s former dictator and an avid bear hunter. But bears have been increasingly driven into town as development has encroached on their dense forest and food sources. People, some reckless, have been hurt — one woman while trying to take a selfie with a bear.
Farmers bemoan lost livestock, while a plan to reduce the bear population by selective hunting is drawing fierce opposition from environmentalists.
Two years ago, the director Barry Jenkins, above center, strode onstage at the Gotham Awards and 
Tonight, he has a chance to win the same award for his follow-up feature, 
The Gotham Awards celebrate independent film and often mark the start of the film awards season, which will march on until the Oscars in February. In three of the last four years, the winner for best feature at the Gothams won the Oscar for best picture.
At the ceremony tonight in New York, Mr. Jenkins’s adaptation of James Baldwin’s novel will compete with 
Big-budget studio pictures like 
The show can be 