
Britain’s information commissioner is seeking a warrant to review the firm’s data, which was collected through a third-party app on Facebook.
The technical openness to engagement that helped make Facebook a juggernaut has become a privacy nightmare, 
Facebook’s share price 
_____
London conceded that E.U. citizens who arrived in Britain during the transition period would have the same rights as those already in the country.
But the deal still depends on a broader agreement that is far from certain.
_____
While autonomous cars are expected to ultimately be safer, they face a challenge in trying to adjust for unpredictable behavior. In this case, the woman was crossing the street outside of a crosswalk.
(
_____
In bypassing the news media, Mr. Assad delivered an alternative view of the war, one in which he is assured and in charge.
Separately, a young English woman’s idealism took her to Syria, 
_____
Separately, he is said to be 
At least online, intelligence agency and law enforcement targets of President Trump’s insult-laden attacks are 
Today, we end with a personal note:
Since these briefings’ inception over a year ago, this has been the question I have been asked the most:
“How do you know what Europeans want to read?”
That’s a fair question for a journalist, albeit a European one, who has spent most of his adult life in Asia, and still is there.
It is also a legitimate question for a U.S. newspaper at a time in which American news cycles are focused on the twists and turns of a tumultuous presidency.
So, here’s what we do:
Every day, we spend hours poring over correspondents’ dispatches and news reports from across Europe, from Iceland to Turkey.
In conversations with editors, we seek to distill wider trends from the day-to-day politics and give you what you need to know to start your day.
Of course, the result has often been a compromise. Is it flawed? Always.
But that’s the rule for all early drafts of history.
My last briefing is today’s. I’d like to invite you to keep reading, keep debating and keep challenging assumptions. Thank you for your time! Now enjoy your morning coffee.