
President Trump 
“It could very well be that the crown prince had knowledge of this tragic event — maybe he did and maybe he didn’t!” Mr. Trump said in a statement that was 
Above, the president speaking to reporters on Tuesday.
Meanwhile, it came to light that Mr. Trump in April 
The president has continued to privately discuss the matter, sources say. And his legal team has also 
_____
Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain won a moment of reprieve when her enemies within the Conservative Party, set to challenge her leadership, 
Hard-line supporters of Brexit who see her withdrawal plan as a surrender of sovereignty had been confident they would get the 48 letters of support from Conservative lawmakers needed to prompt a no-confidence vote against Mrs. May.
On Tuesday, they didn’t have 48, admitting that their supposed supporters had misled them. But they also said that they wouldn’t give up.
Above, anti-Brexit protesters outside Parliament on Tuesday.
_____
After Asian and European markets tumbled, 
The losses wiped out market gains for the year. They were led by a 
Investors were concerned about the broader U.S.-China trade war as well.
In the U.S., unemployment is low, corporate profits are rising and the economy is humming along. But the stock market 
It was another 
On this day almost a century ago, Rebecca Felton, above, became 
For one day.
In 1922, Georgia’s governor decided to run for the seat of a senator who had died. Seeking votes from the newly enfranchised women of his state, he appointed the 87-year-old Mrs. Felton to “serve” over a congressional recess.
He lost, but Mrs. Felton was able to take office anyway.
And she was no novice.
Besides being a suffragist and a fighter for temperance, she had worked tirelessly on the campaigns of her husband, a congressman. Complicating her legacy, she was also an outspoken white supremacist.
Her one and only Senate floor speech concluded with a prescient promise to future female lawmakers:
“You will get integrity of purpose, you will get exalted patriotism, and you will get unstinted usefulness.”