
After months of deadlock, Britain and the E.U. 
The plan now needs approval from Prime Minister Theresa May’s cabinet, where hard-line Brexiteers could rebel and threaten the deal. Then it needs an O.K. from a fractious British Parliament that will be hard to please. 
Details of the outline agreement aren’t available yet, but Mrs. May’s cabinet is scheduled to meet today, and we’ll have live updates. If the cabinet gives the plan a green light, European leaders will need to give it their own blessing at the end of the month.
Britain is scheduled to leave the bloc in March, come what may. One business that could suffer major disruption: 
_____
In a speech televised around the Continent, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, above, called for the creation “one day” of 
While she stressed that the army should supplement NATO, she also said, “The days where we can unconditionally rely on others are gone.”
As if to underline her point, President Trump on the same day assailed President Emmanuel Macron of France for his own comments in an interview last week in favor of a European army, which were apparently misconstrued to suggest Mr. Macron wanted the army for defense against, among others, the U.S.
On Twitter, Mr. Trump defended “nationalism” and 
“They were starting to learn German in Paris before the U.S. came along. Pay for NATO or not!” he tweeted.
Mr. Trump’s barbs were seen as especially indelicate coming on 
_____
Airlines, pilots and regulators are trying to determine 
Investigators are focused on whether the system caused the accident. It’s designed to correct a plane’s angle if the plane appears to be stalling, but if activated incorrectly it could initiate a steep dive.
The pilots’ union for American Airlines said that the emergency system had not been included in the Max 8’s standard operating manual.
The 737 Max 8 is in a competitive battle with an update of the Airbus A320, and Boeing has been promoting the model as requiring little additional training for airlines that already use the previous version.
The cause of the crash remains unknown. Above, an Indonesian official examining wreckage.
_____
Moscow’s psychological warfare in the 2016 U.S. presidential elections was the culmination of a decades-long strategy for fomenting divisions in the West and undermining democracies, often in places ill equipped to combat the threat.
Our Opinion team paired up with the BBC to produce a three-part documentary, “Operation InfeKtion,” that exposes 
• 
Would you order books, clothes and appliances from a company whose name accidentally evoked a mortuary? Or, deliberately, ruthless persistence?
In 1994, Jeff Bezos considered many potential names before choosing Amazon, evoking the world’s largest river. Now, 24 years later, his bookseller has expanded into one of the world’s largest retailers, and it’s splitting its second headquarters between a Washington suburb and a New York neighborhood.
Would it have been as successful had Mr. Bezos stuck with 
He hasn’t ever fully given up on Relentless.com, which still forwards to Amazon. (The company’s naming is recounted in 
Worth noting: Amazon’s corporate arrival in New York City, 