
Prime Minister Theresa May’s cabinet approved a draft deal with the European Union on the country’s withdrawal from the bloc, only five months away.
While the cabinet vote relieves some of the pressure on the prime minister, the deal must still win the approval of European lawmakers and British Parliament, which seems far from certain.
Here is 
_____
The first batch of the 720,000 Rohingya who fled slaughter, rape and village burnings in their homeland are 
The United Nations estimates that at least 10,000 people were killed last year in the military-led outbreak of ethnic cleansing.
Few apart from the Myanmar and Bangladesh governments seem to think the new transfers are a good idea. The U.N. said that at least two men in the refugee camps, pictured above, attempted suicide rather than face the possibility of returning to Myanmar.
And human rights groups have expressed concern about the future well-being of returned Rohingyas, calling the move “dangerous and premature.”
_____
Two men have played pivotal roles in the rise of Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman of Saudi Arabia, above: Saud el-Qahtani, a poet who became his chief propagandist; and Turki al-Sheikh, a former bodyguard who runs the Saudi sports commission.
Even Saudi royalty came to fear 
But now, in the aftermath of the killing of the journalist Jamal Khashoggi, their fates are unclear.
Neither was among the 18 arrested in the Saudi Arabia investigation. But Mr. Qahtani lost his title as an adviser to the royal court. And Mr. Sheikh has avoided the spotlight.
Saudi watchers consider the men’s fate a bellwether of the royal court’s direction as it grapples with the international outrage over the killing.
_____
“You threw us under the bus!” Sheryl Sandberg yelled.
It was September 2017. And Facebook’s chief operating officer was furious with the company’s security chief — who had just informed board members that the company still hadn’t contained Russian activity on its site.
That clash set off a reckoning for the social network. As the company tried to grapple with the public outrage over meddling in the 2016 elections, its leaders sought to mask the extent of the problem and adopted an aggressive lobbying effort to combat critics.
Our investigative journalists recreate 
_____
_____
Hong Kong is often in the news, but a few recent headlines are on a surprising topic for one of the most densely populated places on Earth: wildlife.
And there’s a ready display right out all those skyscraper windows. Black kites, with wingspans of up to five feet, can be
The birds inhabit much of Europe, Asia, Africa and Australia. Hong Kong’s count surges in the winter because of migration from the north.
How do they manage? The city still has abundant green space for nesting. And while the kites have been known to hunt just about anything, their favorite meals include carrion from landfills and the harbor, where there are usually a few dead fish to be found.