
Furious over President Trump’s embrace of Saudi Arabia after the killing of the journalist Jamal Khashoggi, U.S. senators will 
Fourteen Republicans joined the Democrats in voting to bring to the floor a measure to end American military action in Yemen, where a Saudi-led bombing campaign against Houthi rebels has put 14 million people on the brink of starvation.
Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, above, and Defense Secretary Jim Matthis told senators that withdrawing military support would damage an alliance with Saudi Arabia they see as vital. They also said there was no clear evidence that Mr. Khashoggi’s killing was organized by the Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, contradicting the conclusion of the C.I.A.
Even if the Senate measure is approved, it is unlikely to pass the House until after Democrats take over the majority in the new year.
_____
The Chinese scientist He Jiankui, left, who claims to have created the world’s first genetically edited babies, 
Scores of scientists have criticized the research, which Dr. He revealed only after the birth this month of twin girls whose embryos he said he had altered to make them invulnerable to H.I.V. infection. He doesn’t appear to have sought approval from Chinese regulators. A senior Chinese official reportedly said that the experiment, if confirmed, would violate regulations.
The birth of gene-edited children is alarming for both practical and theoretical reasons. First are safety worries — for example, unintended genetic effects. Then there is the concern that editing could be used to engineer babies with superior skills or desired physical features.
_____
After a flurry of fast-paced tiebreakers, the Norwegian player Magnus Carlsen, left, 
The first 12 games in the tournament, some lasting as long as seven hours, all ended in draws — a first for an event that dates to the 1800s.
Mr. Carlsen, the world’s top-ranked chess player for the past eight years, has 
_____
The appropriately named War Hostel Sarajevo in the Bosnian capital 
“I decided to give people what they wanted,” said Arijan Kurbasic, above, the manager of the establishment.
What people want is a bitter taste of life in Bosnia during the ethnic warfare of the 1990s. Mr. Kurbasic says he isn’t cultivating nostalgia for Europe’s worst period of bloodshed since World War II. Quite the opposite, he says: He wants guests to experience the sheer immersive hell of war to understand that it is not a game.
The hospitality industry’s term for what he offers is “dark tourism,” a niche but growing global market focused on places where terrible things happened, 
In a small concession to peacetime, the Sarajevo hostel has Wi-Fi.
• 
• 
“Mary Poppins Returns” will glide into Los Angeles tonight for its red carpet premiere. Emily Blunt, portraying the title character, hopes to fill the large shoes left by Julie Andrews in the 1964 film.
But Mary Poppins existed before either of those two British actresses was even born. She flew into the world in 1934 on the pen of the author P.L. Travers, above.
Travers was born Helen Lyndon Goff in Queensland, Australia, in 1899. As a teenager, she was a Shakespearean actress, a dancer, a journalist and a poet.
She moved to England in 1924 and soon dreamed up a governess who slid up banisters and imparted cheeky life lessons. A decade later, “Mary Poppins” was published in London to critical acclaim. Travers would continue to write stories about Poppins over the next half-century. She died in 1996.
“I think the idea of Mary Poppins has been blowing in and out of me, like a curtain at a window, all my life,” 