
In a litany of memos on Friday, prosecutors effectively 
And the office of the special counsel, Robert Mueller, said that Mr. Trump continued to secretly seek to do business in Russia deep into his presidential campaign, even as Russian agents sought to influence the election.
Together, the legal filings laid bare the most direct evidence to date linking Mr. Trump to potentially criminal conduct, and added to an already substantial case that Russia was seeking to sway the 2016 election in his favor.
_____
In the early months of the Trump administration, Mr. Kushner, the president’s son-in-law and Middle East adviser, had private, informal conversations with Saudi Arabia’s crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, according to three former White House officials. Above, the prince and Mr. Kushner.
Despite resistance from senior American officials, the exchanges continued even after Oct. 2, when the dissident Jamal Khashoggi was killed and dismembered at the Saudi Consulate in Istanbul. Mr. Kushner has served as the prince’s most important defender inside the White House.
_____
Parliament is scheduled to vote on Tuesday on the government’s plans to leave the European Union. Prime Minister Theresa May and her team have been scrambling to shore up support for 
But more than 100 lawmakers from her Conservative Party have said they will vote against the deal, 
_____
The Chinese government on Sunday 
But the government also appeared intent on 
Ms. Meng, who until recently was seen as the 
_____
This evening in Stockholm, Nobel laureates will feast on a banquet with Swedish royalty after receiving their Nobel Prizes. It’s one of many traditions associated with 
But another — in which laureates are awoken at the Grand Hotel Stockholm by girls in white carrying candles — may be fading into history.
The ceremony reflects an annual Swedish 
But a manager at the hotel said that this year’s edition was canceled “due to fire risk” in the laureates’ rooms. A version will still take place in the lobby and one of the hotel’s restaurants.
Not every Nobel Laureate has enjoyed the wake-up call.
When white-clad maidens came to the American novelist 
“I scowled, and then my face formed the smile which is obligatory on such occasions,” he later 