
The British prime minister, after days of political turmoil, said in a TV interview that she would 
The deal, though 
Mrs. May now faces a series of threats at home:
→ 
_____
It seemed too good to be true: 
The program, spearheaded by local governments, started in July and has so far handed out 2.9 million phones, in an effort to bridge the country’s yawning digital gap and connect more people to the internet. Above, a group gathers around a new smartphone.
But with election season around the corner, local officials from the country’s ruling party, the B.J.P., are using the phones to target voters.
Contractors have been calling recipients of the phones to ask whether they plan to vote and which party they intend to vote for, according to half a dozen people who made or received the calls. The phones even come pre-loaded with campaign apps.
“They are misusing state machinery for personal gains,” said one worker.
_____
The intelligence agency had always been hesitant to definitively point fingers in the killing of the journalist Jamal Khashoggi.
But two sets of communications swayed the agency: intercepts of Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman’s calls in the days before the killing, and calls by the kill team to a senior aide immediately after.
Based on that and the scope of the crown prince’s control of Saudi Arabia, the C.I.A. went from believing the crown prince, above, was culpable in the killing to 
The agency’s new assessment adds pressure on the Trump administration to punish the kingdom, a longtime American ally and the centerpiece of its Middle East policy.
Our video team recreated 
_____
The wetlands, hemmed by the skyscrapers in Hong Kong and the Chinese city of Shenzhen, are home to rare birds, traditional shrimp ponds and eucalyptus trees — a lush respite from the city’s bustle.
But in a city where land prices are among the highest in the world, it’s also 
For decades, landowners have sought — and failed — to develop the area, as preservationists pushed back.
But the people who visit the area, often cyclists and nature lovers, fear that the development companies will eventually win out.
“People in Hong Kong only care about the economy,” said one cyclist.
_____
_____
In the uncertain years after Mao’s death, China was just recovering from decades of political and economic turmoil. More than 
Today, China leads the world in its number of homeowners, internet users, college graduates and, by some counts, billionaires. Extreme poverty has fallen to less than 1 percent of the population. An isolated, impoverished backwater has evolved into the most significant rival to the United States since the fall of the Soviet Union.
To explain that drastic shift, we at The New York Times have put together 
This kind of reporting isn’t easy. It requires having people on the ground with the smarts and experience to ask the right questions, and the tenacity to keep asking until they get to the truth. That can be especially tough in a place like China, where the government is both secretive and thin-skinned.
So I hope you’ll enjoy this project and discuss it with your friends. You can also write in with your comments. A global conversation about what China’s rise means for the world is long overdue.
Sincerely,
The Grammys have revoked an award only once.
That happened 28 years ago today, after the German duo Milli Vanilli, above, 
They also admitted to lip-syncing at their many shows, and blamed their producer for putting them up to it.
The scandal cost them the 1989 Grammy for Best New Artist — and their careers.
Since then, Milli Vanilli has become pop culture shorthand for fraud. Last month, Nicki Minaj referenced the group in a thinly veiled shot at her rival, Cardi B.
But the discussion around authenticity has shifted as well. Cardi B and Kanye West 
In an era of 
We’ll never know if Milli Vanilli was actually years ahead of its time.