
After ripping through the Philippines and Hong Kong, pictured above, Typhoon Mangkhut is pelting its way through southern China. at least four people were reported killed in Guangdong Province. Here are our 
In the Philippines, where a landslide 
In the U.S., Hurricane Florence slammed into the Carolina coast on Friday, leaving 
We’ve dropped our paywall for 
_____
Macedonians rallied on Sunday in support of the most important vote in their history: a Sept. 30 referendum on whether to rename itself North Macedonia. Doing so would end a three-decade struggle with Greece over a name it claims, opening the door to the West and possible NATO membership.
But voters have been besieged by 
To support the referendum, Jens Stoltenberg, the NATO general secretary, has visited, as have Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and Federica Mogherini, the E.U.’s foreign policy chief. And the U.S. defense secretary, Jim Mattis, arrives in the capital, Skopje, today.
_____
It has been an anxious season for London’s wealthy Russians. In the wake of the poisoning in England of the former Russian spy Sergei Skripal, Britain is reportedly reviewing investor visas and is increasingly willing to freeze the assets of those who cannot legally account for their riches.
_____
The North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, is altering his tactics since meeting President Trump, above, in June. He is still making nuclear fuel and building weapons, American intelligence officials say, but now he’s 
Other things, not so much. A woman has come forward to accuse his Supreme Court nominee, Judge Brett Kavanaugh, of 
Also, Mr. Trump has 
And Paul Manafort, the former Trump campaign chairman, is cooperating with the special counsel, Robert Mueller, 
_____
Eliud Kipchoge, a 33-year-old Kenyan who is the most decorated long-distance runner on the planet, 
Kipchoge started out at a blistering tempo: 10 kilometers in 29:21. When his last pacesetter dropped back halfway through, he sped up.
His time: 2 hours 1 minute 39 seconds. The second-place finisher was nearly five minutes behind. 
• 
Last week, two Russians named by Britain as the prime suspects in a nerve agent attack said that they 
They wouldn’t have been alone.
Near the famous Stonehenge site, the city is about 90 miles southwest of London and is perhaps most famous for its Gothic cathedral, above, 
In “
The main body of the cathedral was completed in 1258 and, as noted by one of the suspects in an interview on Russian TV, “It’s famous for its 123-meter spire.” (That’s equivalent to 404 feet, making it the tallest church spire in Britain.)
The cathedral contains the best-preserved of the four original copies of Magna Carta, the 13th-century document to restrict the powers of the king.
It’s also the burial place of 
The cathedral has also featured widely in literature and art, particularly in the work of the landscape painter John Constable.