
transcript
33-year-old French citizen Emilie König traveled to Syria five years ago and eventually joined ISIS. She is shown in this video recorded by Kurdish forces in Syria who have been detaining her since December. Now she says she wants to come home. König converted to Islam as a teenager, married and had two children. But in 2012 she left her kids behind to travel alone to Syria. She became one of the several thousand to have traveled from Europe to join ISIS and other jihadist groups in Syria and Iraq. She went on to become a key recruiter for ISIS and one of the few women making it onto Western nations’ most wanted terrorist lists. After being captured by Kurdish forces, she, like other Europeans who joined ISIS, is hoping to be repatriated. But whether France, a country that suffered recent devastating terror attacks on its soil, wants her back remains to be seen.
The quandary her case poses is an increasingly 
Meanwhile, 
_____
Mr. Trump is 
On Twitter, Mr. Trump said that he had 
Meanwhile, the privacy movement that emerged after the 2013 leaks by Edward Snowden suffered a major setback when the House 
_____
The idea has gradually been gaining ground. Even Nigel Farage, the populist politician who prominently campaigned for Brexit, has hinted he might favor holding another vote.
While a second referendum is possible, 
_____
“We want to make sure that our products are not just fun but are good for people,” said Mr. Zuckerberg, the company’s founder. “We need to refocus the system.”
If you’re among the network’s more than two billion users, expect to see fewer viral videos and news articles in the coming weeks, and more posts that include interactions between you and the people you know.
_____
That made us wonder: 
Our travel desk 
transcript
“I want to get back to your statement a few weeks ago about the Nieuwsuur interview, because you said you regret the exchange with Nieuwsuur. You didn’t come back to the original remarks saying that politicians were burned. Do you now, unequivocally, do you now reach a conclusion that you were wrong when you stated that politicians and cars were being burned? Because you can discuss views, like you said, but not facts. Was that a wrong remark? Was it false?” “I issued a statement. I expressed my regrets and my apology for the comments that I made. And I’m not revisiting the issue.” “Yeah, but for what remarks, exactly? No, no, seriously, please. This is important. For the original remarks? Are politicians being burned in the Netherlands in the past? Is that something you believe? Yes or no?” “I’m not revisiting the issue. I’ve expressed my regrets, and I expressed an apology.” “So, you’re still sticking to that original remark? You’re regretting the Nieuwsuur remarks but not the original remarks?” “Any example of a Dutch politician who was burned in recent years?” “We go to Bonny.” “Good morning, Ambassador.” “Good morning.” “This is not how this works, guys, come on.” “This is the Netherlands: You have to answer questions.” “Please, this is not hard work.” “He’s answering the questions.” “No, he didn’t, he didn’t answer mine.” [inaudible] “You didn’t answer his question. You didn’t answer his question.” “If we don’t have any further questions, then we can move on.” “We do.” “No, we do.” “O.K., I’m asking Bonny to put her question out there.”
That was a Dutch journalist’s comment during a strained exchange with the American ambassador, Peter Hoekstra. (The Trump appointee refused to answer questions about his 2015 statement that Muslims had burned Dutch politicians.) [
“Hello. I’m Johnny Cash.”
With those words, Mr. Cash kicked off a concert at a state prison in California that revitalized his music career and fortified his outlaw persona. Recorded 50 years ago on Saturday, “At Folsom Prison” remains a 
Entertaining inmates — while taunting their guards — was tame compared with the other exploits of the Man in Black.
In 1965, Mr. Cash 
In a dispute with his label in the 1980s, Mr. Cash released 
Mr. Cash, 
As Mr. Cash told The Times in 