
Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain 
The resignations threaten to wreck not only Mrs. May’s plans for leaving the bloc, but also her leadership. They followed a tense, five-hour meeting of the cabinet on Wednesday, during which the cabinet 
The deal would still need approval from European leaders and the E.U. Parliament. But the hardest test will be the British Parliament, where a maelstrom of opposition awaits and where the prime minister could face a vote of no confidence.
_____
“You threw us under the bus!” Sheryl Sandberg yelled.
It was September 2017. Facebook’s chief operating officer was furious with the company’s security chief — who had just informed board members that the company still hadn’t contained illicit Russian activity on its site. (Above, cardboard cutouts of the chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, at an April protest in Washington.)
That clash set off a reckoning for the company. As it tried to grapple with public outrage over meddling in the 2016 elections, its leaders sought to mask the extent of the problem, lobbying extensively in Washington and aggressively battling its critics — even painting them as pawns of the liberal billionaire George Soros.
Our journalists show in detail 
_____
Two men have played pivotal roles in the rise of Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman of Saudi Arabia, above: Saud el-Qahtani, a poet who became his chief propagandist; and Turki al-Sheikh, a former bodyguard who runs the Saudi sports commission.
Even Saudi royalty came to fear 
Neither was among the 18 arrested by the Saudi authorities. But Mr. Qahtani lost his title as an adviser to the royal court. And Mr. Sheikh has avoided the spotlight.
Saudi watchers consider the men’s fate a bellwether of the royal court’s direction as it grapples with outrage over the killing. Turkey, meanwhile, is 
_____
That’s Oxford Dictionaries’ 
The word derives from the Greek “toxikon pharmakon,” meaning “poison for arrows.” For hundreds of years, it mostly referred to literal poisons.
But lately, it seems almost 
Last year’s winner — to the consternation of many — was “youthquake.” In 2016, it was “post-truth.”
• 
• 
Hong Kong is often in the news, but a few recent headlines are on a surprising topic for one of the most densely populated places on Earth: wildlife.
And there’s a ready display right out all those skyscraper windows. Black kites, with wingspans of up to five feet, can be 
The birds inhabit much of Europe, Asia, Africa and Australia. Hong Kong’s count surges in the winter because of migration from the north.
How do they manage? The city still has abundant green space for nesting. And while the kites have been known to hunt just about anything, their favorite meals include carrion from landfills and the harbor, where there are usually a few dead fish to be found.