
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning,
We start today with a look at 
Global stocks are down today,
President Trump is looking for a new chief of staff, after announcing over the weekend that 
Nick Ayers, chief of staff to Vice President Mike Pence and a leading contender to replace Mr. Kelly, said on Sunday that 
After recommending a substantial prison term for President Trump’s former lawyer, federal prosecutors are 
Mr. Cohen, who pleaded guilty in August to breaking campaign finance laws and other crimes, is to be sentenced on Wednesday. Prosecutors have accused Mr. Trump of directing illegal payments to ward off a possible sex scandal that could have damaged his chances of winning the election.
And they’re not keeping it a secret.
Most people know that apps can track their movements, but as technology becomes more accurate, snooping on people’s daily habits has grown more intrusive. Sales of location-targeted advertising are set to reach $21 billion this year.
Dozens of companies say the information they collect and sell to advertisers is anonymous, but 
When Justin Trudeau became Canada’s prime minister three years ago, tackling climate change was near the top of his agenda. Putting a price on carbon pollution was his government’s weapon of choice.
The way that’s playing out is a lesson in 
And here’s 
This evening in Stockholm, Nobel laureates will feast on a banquet with Swedish royalty after receiving their Nobel Prizes. It’s one of many traditions associated with 
But another — in which laureates are awakened at the Grand Hotel Stockholm by young women in white carrying candles — may be fading into history.
The ceremony reflects a Swedish 
But a manager at the hotel said that the tradition would not continue this year “due to fire risk” in the laureates’ rooms. A version will still take place in the lobby and in one of the hotel’s restaurants.
Not every Nobel laureate enjoyed the wake-up call.
When women wearing white came to the American novelist 
“I scowled, and then my face formed the smile which is obligatory on such occasions,” he later 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Chris