
When the German state on the front lines of the 2015 migrant crisis went to the polls on Sunday, voters were widely expected to abandon the conservative allies of Chancellor Angela Merkel.
They did, but with a twist: Bavarians 
The Greens doubled their haul to 17.2 percent, which makes them the second-biggest political force in Bavaria and Germany. It was another sign of the collapse of entrenched political parties in Europe.
Above, Ludwig Hartmann and Katharina Schulze, leading Greens, celebrating the returns.
The Christian Social Union, allies of Ms. Merkel, lost a long-held absolute majority, adding to doubts about the stability of her coalition.
Voters also defected to the anti-immigrant, far-right Alternative for Germany party, giving it about 10 percent — enough to enter Bavaria’s Parliament for the first time.
_____
Turkey’s assertion that the dissident Saudi journalist was tortured, killed and dismembered at the Saudi Consulate in Istanbul has created 
Britain, France and Germany issued a joint statement demanding a “credible investigation,” and President Trump warned of “severe punishment” if the Saudi royal court was found to be responsible for Mr. Khashoggi’s disappearance. But he has 
Saudi Arabia, which denies any role in the disappearance, warned that any punitive American response would be met “with greater action,” backed by the kingdom’s economic might.
With the Saudi crown prince’s image as a reformer 
Mr. Khashoggi had both an 
_____
Mr. Trump, who has harshly criticized foreign aid, quietly 
The shift is driven by a desire to counter China’s infrastructure investments in those regions, which are part of a plan to gain greater global influence. Above, a project in Sri Lanka financed by a Chinese company.
Separately, we followed a trail of online evidence that 
_____
The storm, which 
One beach house in Mexico Beach, Fla., above, 
_____
Millions of immigrants come to the U.S. dreaming of opportunity, only to be confronted with harsh reality.
So it was with a woman named Song Yang.
Our reporters pieced together 
In October 1990, the United States was fretting about an invasion across the Mexican border — but it was one that no wall could stop.
The interlopers? “Killer bees,” a particularly aggressive honeybee whose arrival in the United States 
The bees, bred in Brazil from African and European stock in hopes of increasing honey production, had escaped decades before and had been breeding and moving northward ever since.
While swarms occasionally 
The town celebrates its brush with fame with 
By the way, their 