
A person familiar with Saudi Arabia’s plans told us that the kingdom 
Earlier, President Trump, after speaking with the king of Saudi Arabia, spoke to reporters at the White House, above, and seemed to preview the new take, saying that “rogue killers” might be behind Mr. Khashoggi’s disappearance.
Neither Turkey nor Saudi Arabia have shared evidence so far. Here’s what else 
Mr. Trump is sending Secretary of State Mike Pompeo to meet with King Salman. And, as of now, Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin is still planning to attend an investor conference in Riyadh this month — despite many heavyweights 
_____
For about half a decade, Myanmar’s military exploited Facebook’s vast reach to unleash 
Hundreds of military personnel were involved, creating sham accounts and celebrity pages and then flooding them with incendiary posts, the sources told us.
Facebook confirmed the military’s involvement, and it took down the accounts in August.
But by then the damage was done: More than 700,000 Rohingya Muslims, pictured above, had fled the country in what U.N. officials called “a textbook example of ethnic cleansing.”
_____
Ahead of her summit meeting with European counterparts on Wednesday, Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain tried to put a brave face 
“I do not believe the U.K. and the E.U. are far apart,” she said. But deadlock threatened to become crisis at the coming meeting.
One of the biggest sticking points: avoiding the creation of a physical border between Ireland and Northern Ireland. We surveyed their winding open frontier, 
That strife, many fear, could return if there is no Brexit deal and a hard border falls.
_____
A scathing new report paints Britain’s House of Commons as a 
The inquiry had been commissioned by the House after a BBC investigation showed complaints being batted away by employees trained to protect superiors.
Drawing on accounts from 200 people, mostly current staff members, it describes unwanted touching, sexual propositions and bullying by members of Parliament accorded, in one person’s account, “almost godlike status.”
The report says that change would probably require a change in leadership.
_____
He and two teammates had been beaten by opposing players and fans during an amateur game in France, in what Sissoko, above left, and others say was a racist attack. But he was blamed.
That episode has shined a light on the 
“We call it the beautiful game,” said Francis Mante, a referee who said he had experienced racist abuse. “But it’s set up in a very cruel world.”
• 
• 
The N.B.A. season opens tonight with a matchup between the Philadelphia 76ers and the Boston Celtics, a storied rivalry.
But it’s far from the league’s fiercest beef. That honor could belong to Robin Lopez and … mascots.
Lopez, a 7-foot center for the Chicago Bulls, has playfully quarreled with the furry cheerleaders for years. The confrontations tend to follow a pattern: The home team’s mascot will insult Lopez or bait him into 
It’s all in good fun. Lopez avoids earnest talk about the joke, though he 
“I feel like my earliest encounters with mascots, they were never too receptive of me,” Lopez 
The Bulls start their season on Thursday in Philadelphia, where 