
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning,
We start today with a look at 
Mrs. May has delayed a parliamentary vote on her compromise deal, acknowledging that it would have faced defeat “by a significant margin.” Parliament is to hold an emergency debate today on the postponement of the vote, and a spokesman for Mrs. May said lawmakers would get a chance to vote on the deal some time before Jan. 21.
Mr. Trump said on Monday that payments made to two women for their silence about alleged extramarital affairs with him 
Federal prosecutors said last week that the payments during the 2016 presidential campaign constituted election-related spending and that Mr. Trump broke the law by directing his former lawyer, Michael Cohen, to make them.
A contrite President Emmanuel Macron 
In a 13-minute televised mea culpa, Mr. Macron said the details of his relief steps would be announced today. One would be a monthly increase of 100 euros, or about $115, for workers earning the minimum wage.
In the past two years, the U.S. has dedicated hundreds of millions of dollars and dozens of law enforcement and military personnel to fighting the violent gangs that send ordinary Salva
President Trump views MS-13 as a dangerous force in the U.S., but he has expressed skepticism about helping to root it out in El Salvador. He recently promised to pull American support from the region.
Our journalists in San Salvador 
About 250 million years ago, the Earth almost died.
Our science columnist, Carl Zimmer, explains 
“In the oceans, 96 percent of all species became extinct” after carbon dioxide rushed into the atmosphere, he writes. “It’s harder to determine how many terrestrial species vanished, but the loss was comparable.”
And here’s how to get the most from a 
One of the streets of Paris that has been overtaken by violent demonstrations in the past month is the Boulevard Haussmann.
Running through the city’s Eighth and Ninth Arrondissements, the boulevard is named for Georges-Eugène Haussmann, who defined the look of modern Paris.
In the mid-19th century, Baron Haussmann began 
The baron was given immense power by the emperor, the nephew of Napoleon Bonaparte, and his plan cleared away the overcrowded neighborhoods of central Paris, which had become a breeding ground for disease and social unrest.
The project, which also included new parks, sewerage and other infrastructure, turned the city into an enormous construction site from the 1850s to the 1870s.
Met with increasing criticism, Baron Haussmann was dismissed in 1870 and died 21 years later. But his work wasn’t finished until 1927, when the boulevard that bears his name was completed.
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Chris