
LONDON — National, or international?
As the fault lines deepen between these two ways of thinking in Western democracies, wealthy buyers are facing a similar choice when it comes to acquiring art.
The 
“I used to bring contemporary, but now the standard of Modern British is higher, so I bring historical pieces,” said Jane England, the Australian-born founder of 
“Before Frieze, this fair had a different profile,” Ms. England added, referring to the 
Frieze’s pre-eminence denuded the Islington fair of exhibitors such as Annely Juda Fine Art, which now shows at Frieze’s sister fair, Frieze Masters.
England & Company was showing a 1946 watercolor by the British surrealist artist 
Burra, known for his watercolors, worked in Harlem, New York, in the 1930s and was influenced by a German Expressionist, George Grosz. The “Landscape with Figures” piece was particularly desirable because it combined the idiosyncratic artist’s favorite motifs of surreal figures and strangely foreboding countryside.
The London Art Fair this year featured 131 galleries with most of the higher-value works being offered by Modern British specialists in the central mezzanine level of the venue at the Business Design Center. It was also a predominantly British crowd sipping the free gin and tonics at the private evening view.
The London gallery 
“If it were by an American artist, it would have another zero,” said Tania Sutton, a director at Osborne Samuel. The gallery had four confirmed sales at the private view, ranging in price from £10,000 to £35,000, according to Ms. Sutton.
Feiler was part of the St. Ives School of artists, based in Cornwall, England, whose works have been popular with modern-minded British art collectors. In November, a similar but smaller abstract by the artist sold for £125,000 at a London auction, according to the 
“A lot of people have accumulated money in this country, they want to buy art and they’re drawn to their own national school of artists,” said Robert Upstone, a private dealer, who was visiting the fair. “They’re undervalued in international terms,” added Mr. Upstone, a former director at 
By that time, the Islington fair had lost its reputation for being a place where City of London bankers spent their bonuses, according to Ms. Sutton of Osborne Samuel.
“It’s a different market now and bonuses are paid differently,” she said. Ms. Sutton did say, however, that 
For the Modern British market to expand significantly, either a lot more British collectors will have to buy more works — which looks problematic with Brexit, or Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union, 
In 2016, Sotheby’s enjoyed a bumper £52.3 million year of Modern British art auctions, thanks to an injection of almost £20 million from 
At Sotheby’s, American buyers have accounted for about 14 percent of those totals since 2015, the auction house said. A few blue-chip names aside, “Mod Brit” remains, by and large, a British taste.
The market for new international contemporary art in London’s galleries has a different dynamic.
Stephen Friedman, a London dealer in Mayfair, for example, is showing an exhibition of 
But again, Britain’s negotiations to leave the European Union are casting a shadow, even over successful dealer shows. Josh Lilley, a dealer based in the Fitzrovia district of London, has transformed his gallery into a garishly colored “Bad Land,” with videos, sculptures and neon pieces that aim to evoke the loneliness of today’s consumer culture.
The works in that display are by Alex Da Corte, a Venezuelan-American multimedia artist based in Philadelphia. Mr. Da Corte featured in four museum shows in America and Europe in 2017, giving international collectors the confidence to spend as much as $65,000 on his distinctive neon works.
In the case of the Friedman and Lilley exhibitions, gallery prices for the new works were above the current auction highs for both Mr. Wiley and Mr. Da Corte, according to Artnet. But those highs were achieved late last year, suggesting that the resale market for both artists has upward momentum.
“Brexit makes a difference,” said Mr. Lilley. “Some of my wealthiest clients are spending less time in London and more time in places like Monaco.” But, he added: “The geography isn’t going to change. Any successful person is going to come through London. I’m just going to see them less often in the gallery.”
Ms. England, who sold the Burra watercolor, also represents the Chilean artist Cecilia Vicuña. On Jan. 14, England & Company 
Ms. England recalled that she originally made contact with the Chilean artist when they were both in London in the early 1970s.
“In those days, London had a generous creative spirit,” Ms. England said. “It was a place for citizens of the world.”
The fear now is that changes like Brexit could damage that spirit, diminishing Britain as a hub — for national and international art.