
President Trump 
He laid out a vision of vast tent cities for undocumented immigrants, and said that the 
That shocked the military because, officials told us, doing so would violate its terms of engagement.
Mr. Trump is chumming the waters for his base, while hoping that he won’t alienate suburban voters, who have already been 
_____
After receding on Wednesday, some of the highest floodwaters ever seen in Venice 
Tourists in rubber boots ate in flooded restaurants, or even frolicked in the streets, while locals agonized over the saltwater drenching of Venice’s private gardens and inestimable treasures, like St. Mark’s Basilica, above.
Rising seas pose an existential threat to Venice, but planned floodgates have been unfinished for more than a decade.
The full corrosive impact of the saturation will take time to show itself.
_____
The Trump administration has 
But the U.S. is considering sanctions against the kingdom that would be limited enough to avoid a rupture with Prince Mohammed. In exchange, the White House is hoping to negotiate an end to the blockade of Qatar and the 
Meanwhile, the Indonesian government protested 
_____
Each Nov. 1, everyone’s taxable income is made public at precisely 8 a.m., and Finns 
Reporters look for fodder — Who might be circumventing taxes? How much did the country’s best-known pornographic film star make? — and ordinary people take stock of inequalities both nationally and in their workplaces.
While there are some complaints about the invasion of privacy, many Finns told us that the ritual baring of incomes promotes egalitarianism, deters cheating and can make it easier to ask for a raise.
_____
Strongmen are on the ascent around the world, in countries as different as Brazil and Hungary. Above, supporters of Jair Bolsonaro, the far-right Brazilian presidential candidate, celebrating his victory last month in Rio de Janeiro. He and other Brazilian leaders 
Research suggests that their success may stem from weaknesses inherent to democracy itself, 
In Europe, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany has been seen by many as a dam against rising populism, but 
The Meiji Jingu Shrine, where Princess Ayako of Japan 
While it appears ancient, the shrine, pictured above, is 
It was during their era that Japan opened up to the West. But Japan also embraced traditional culture by officially cultivating the distinctive Shinto religion.
Today, Meiji Jingu is a forested refuge just steps away from Tokyo’s hipster shopping district Harajuku. And the shrine has become one of the city’s 
When this reporter’s good friend and college classmate got married there several years ago, guests gushed over her elaborate kimono and the beautiful red sake bowls and the priests and priestesses who made the ceremony oh-so-Japanese.
She wasn’t alone. More couples are opting for this kind of traditional ceremony, according to local media reports.
But then again, the white wedding kimono that she wore was in a style thought to have been adopted from Western wedding gowns.
It goes to show the complex weaving together of old and new, of tradition and adopted tradition, in a city that’s constantly changing.