
F.B.I. investigators gambled in 2013 that letting a C.I.A. officer suspected of spying for China slip out of the United States could help them piece together how Beijing decimated an American spy network.
Nearly five years later, when the former officer made a surprise return to the United States this week, the F.B.I. hurried to arrest him upon arrival.
_____
The deal allows Mr. Bannon to avoid testifying before a grand jury and is a sign that he may be cooperating with the investigation.
Separately, 
_____
Facebook told lawmakers that it was 
President Emmanuel Macron of France is expected in Britain today for 
_____
The murder shows how the debate on migration has reached a new and fevered stage, our Berlin bureau chief writes.
Mrs. Merkel 
_____
North and South Korea agreed to have their athletes march together under a “unified Korea” flag at the opening ceremony of the Winter Olympics next month. The two nations will also 
The moves are “the most dramatic gesture of reconciliation between the two nations in a decade,” 
transcript
“In the wake of an article about Aziz Ansari.” “A date with comedian Aziz Ansari.” “Aziz Ansari is pushing back.” “Her date with comedian Aziz Ansari.” A sexual misconduct allegation against Aziz Ansari has become a flashpoint in the #MeToo conversation. In a recent article, Ansari was accused of acting inappropriately on a date. The allegations were published on the website babe.net. The anonymous source characterized the encounter as sexual assault. Ansari released a statement saying in part: In the aftermath, there have been many think pieces. Some commentators called it poor journalism, while others said it was a gift to anyone who wants to derail the #MeToo movement. “You had an unpleasant date and you did not leave. That is on you.” The story sparked a renewed conversation about modern dating norms. “Men, if you say you’re a feminist, then [expletive] like a feminist.” “And if you don’t want to do that, take off your [expletive] pin, because we are not your accessory.” And highlighted a generational divide among women. “What is a nonverbal cue? This may be something that young women discuss.” The author of the article called for a broader discussion about affirmative consent. “Just because something happens a lot doesn’t mean it should ever happen.” In the aftermath of the article, the #MeToo conversation is changing. “The story is already out there, so let’s redirect the conversation to something that is actually productive and talk about our broken sexual culture.” “We know the difference between a rapist, a workplace harasser and an Aziz Ansari. That doesn’t mean we have to be happy about any of them.”
Double your money in just 90 days. Better yet, make it 45.
That’s what Charles Ponzi, 
The trickery earned Ponzi his own namesake scheme, made notorious by 
Ponzi took advantage of international postal reply coupons, which allowed postal customers in one country to buy a coupon redeemable for stamps in another country.
Money was invested through Ponzi’s Security Exchange Company with the idea that he would take investors’ dollars, use them to buy foreign postal coupons, convert each coupon into a 5-cent stamp, and convert the stamps into cash.
But Ponzi never invested in the coupons.
Instead, he collected the money and paid off his investors while waiting for another influx of cash to come in. Millions of dollars began arriving every week from working-class people.
Ponzi’s scheme was eventually exposed, and he later died in a charity hospital in Brazil, with only $75 to his name.