
Prime Minister Theresa May’s government slipped into turmoil after 
The surprise resignations dented Mrs. May’s authority a day after her cabinet reluctantly approved a draft plan for the country’s withdrawal from the E.U. There is now an increased risk that she might face a leadership challenge from her own party.
The British pound also took a hit, falling sharply after the day’s news.
But Mrs. May remained unflappable, even amid reports that another minister was considering leaving. “Am I going to see this through?” she said at a news conference at the end of the day, pictured above. “Yes.”
→ 
_____
Putian hospitals seemed promising: the facilities had well-trained specialists and state-of-the-art equipment, patients could book appointments online and the network received billions of dollars in investment from big Wall Street firms. Above, the network’s founder.
But then a cancer patient died at a Putian-linked hospital where he received a discredited form of immunotherapy, prompting national outrage. An investigation followed. Former workers said that hospitals in the group fabricated patient testimonials and even made up the résumés of their doctors.
_____
The Trump administration announced 
The sanctions came just hours after Saudi Arabia’s public prosecutor said he was requesting 
The prosecutor also said that the 15-man team sent to confront Mr. Khashoggi had orders to return him to the kingdom, but decided on the spot to kill and dismember him — shifting the kingdom’s narrative yet again and contradicting Turkish and U.S. findings.
The twin announcements from Riyadh and Washington may be part of an ongoing effort in both capitals to close the case.
But Turkey’s foreign minister declared the new Saudi explanation “unsatisfying” and called for an 
_____
The U.S. vice president is at the tail end of a weeklong trip around Asia. And much of his agenda has been focused on one topic: China.
Mr. Pence met with Asian leaders to shore up support to counterbalance China’s increasing 
Mr. Pence heads next to Australia and Papua New Guinea, which is hosting the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit meeting.
The meeting of world leaders has thrust the host country onto the world stage, and is also shining a spotlight on the island nation’s biggest challenges. Among them: 
_____
_____
On Fridays, The Times publishes a news quiz, which our U.S. briefing writer, Chris Stanford, compiles with the help of a colleague, Anna Schaverien.
Chris writes:
My days are spent scanning headlines and synthesizing the news, and the quiz represents an alternative way to keep you caught up.
Our questions draw on the biggest stories of the week (including sports and pop culture, to the consternation of some readers).
Coming up with the incorrect answers for the multiple choice can be challenging.
We’ve enjoyed your comments. One reader said she competed with her husband and son every week. Another noted, “I LOVE ️this quiz. It can be really tough. Egad!!!”
“You must be great at Trivial Pursuit,” wrote another.
The single most common question we get about the quiz is where to find it. We have an easy answer: 