
An internal investigation found that Carlos Ghosn, above, one of the auto industry’s most high-profile executives, 
A director at the company, Greg Kelly, was also accused of financial misconduct and arrested. Nissan recommended that both be removed from their positions.
Mr. Ghosn, a French citizen, arrived at Nissan in 1999 after the French carmaker Renault bought a large stake in the Japanese company. He was widely hailed for saving it from financial collapse through cost-sharing and the elimination of 21,000 jobs. But he has had bitter pay disputes with the French government, a major Renault shareholder.
Nissan’s investigation into Mr. Ghosn began after a whistle-blower said he had been misrepresenting his salary and using company assets for personal purposes.
_____
Though long at peace, the Bosnian city of Mostar 
These persistent ethnonationalist fissures are paralyzing the country at large, which has been run by three elected presidents — one each for Bosnian Serbs, Croats and Muslims — since the 1995 agreement that halted Europe’s worst conflict since World War II.
As Europe and the U.S. struggle with the rise of ethnic nationalism, Bosnia’s divisions offer a dark lesson in how communities can stay splintered long after many people have forgotten what it was that pushed them apart.
“You are looking at your own future here,” a scholar in Bosnia told us.
_____
King Salman of Saudi Arabia, above, 
He also stood by his son and chosen successor, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, who the C.I.A. has concluded ordered the killing. In his annual address to the Shura Council, the kingdom’s advisory assembly, King Salman showed no intention of sidelining the prince.
Meanwhile, Germany imposed sanctions on 18 Saudis suspected of involvement and froze arms exports to the kingdom, and the Turkish defense minister suggested that Mr. Khashoggi’s killers left the country with his body.
_____
Marseille is the second-largest city in France and one of Europe’s poorest, and it has 
The issue gained new urgency this month when the collapse of two buildings killed eight people. Last week, thousands of protesters marched against the powerful mayor, even calling him a murderer.
Above, a tenant in one of the buildings who was left homeless.
Now the local government is playing catch-up, evacuating more than 1,000 residents from crumbling apartments as others walk up quaking staircases and jolt awake at night at the slightest vibration.
• 
The top end of the art market is booming.
At auctions last week, masterworks by 
But these kinds of numbers aren’t so new, 
Twenty years ago today, van Gogh’s “Portrait of the Artist Without His Beard” 
At that time, it was the third-highest price for any artwork at auction.
The most expensive of all was van Gogh’s “Portrait of Dr. Gachet,” bought in 1990 by the Japanese industrialist 
With inflation, “Dr. Gachet” held that auction record for many years, the high point of the Japanese-driven Impressionist boom.
That was until last November, when 
Compared to that stratospheric price, last week’s sales were relatively — very relatively — down to earth.