
The nomination sets up an epic confirmation battle and could cement the court’s rightward tilt for a generation.
Judge Kavanaugh, 53, is a federal appeals court judge, former aide to President George W. Bush and onetime investigator of President Bill Clinton.
European officials are 
After NATO, Mr. Trump will head to Britain for a few days. Protesters intend to find him wherever he goes (and aim to fly 
Prime Minister Theresa May is battling to save her government after 
The leader of the rescue operation said he was optimistic that the remaining five team members could be brought out of the cave on Tuesday.
These maps and illustrations outline 
“All I can do is stay in the evacuation center, come back and clean and look for a new place,” one said. “I don’t think we can ever live here again.”
That’s what a Justice Department lawyer told a federal judge at a hearing Monday, on the lawsuit filed by the American Civil Liberties Union that precipitated the deadline.
“These kids have already suffered so much because of this policy, and every extra day apart just adds to that pain,” Lee Gelernt, an A.C.L.U. lawyer, said before the hearing.
Its data-mining practices are already under heightened scrutiny in the U.S. and Europe. But the company is forging ahead with tools that can be used to remotely identify people by name without their knowledge or consent.
Meanwhile, we looked at China’s use of facial recognition and an array of other technologies that are helping the country try to create 
A black man, he was dragged to his death by white supremacists in Jasper, Tex.
Both state and federal hate crime laws now bear his name. The 
“It’s not just about remembering the painful details of our brother’s death,” said Louvon Harris, one of Mr. Byrd’s sisters and president of the foundation. “It’s about keeping his memory alive so that this never happens again.”
That was the Russian coach, Stanislav Cherchesov, 
Our reporter has been impressed by the weird, multilingual theater of the news conferences, after which “journalistic neutrality repairs to the nearest bar, breaks open a beer and cheers for the home team.”
And if you’re prepping for breakfast, 
Have a great night.