
The legislation builds on a prison reform bill passed by the House this year, and has the potential to bring moderate Republicans and Democrats together to push it through Congress before the end of the current session.
The bill would unwind some of the tough-on-crime federal policies of the 1980s and 1990s, which have incarcerated African-American offenders at much higher rates than white offenders.
Some law enforcement officials and conservative lawmakers oppose the measure, arguing it poses a risk to public safety.
The county sheriff is releasing names of the missing “in waves,” a spokeswoman said, so that officials can handle the volume of calls. The first list named 103 people. “This in no way is a list of everybody,” she said.
Our reporter followed 
Finding victims’ remains is a grim, low-tech process, experts told us. “As advanced as we are, we are literally down to buckets and shovels,” a police sergeant said.
And our video journalists 
The deal still needs the approval of the British Parliament and European lawmakers, which seems far from certain. Critics argue that it would leave Britain subject to E.U. rules without any say in making them.
So how messy could Brexit be? 
And our reporter explains 
Polls have shown the public supports teachers fighting for more pay and classroom funding. And both Democrats and Republicans won races last week after casting themselves as education champions.
But many voters, particularly in conservative and swing states, were unwilling to open their wallets. And in some states where education funding is among the lowest, voters approved ballot measures that will make it even harder to direct money to schools in the future. Above, canvassing in Arizona.
And House Republicans picked Representative Kevin McCarthy of California 
The word derives from the Greek “toxikon pharmakon,” meaning “poison for arrows.” For hundreds of years, it mostly referred to literal poisons.
But recently, its seems like 
Oxford’s word of the year is chosen to reflect “the ethos, mood or preoccupations” of a particular year, but also to highlight that English is always changing. Last year’s winner — to the consternation of many — was “youthquake.” In 2016, it was “post-truth.”
“You threw us under the bus!” Sheryl Sandberg yelled.
It was September 2017. And Facebook’s chief operating officer was furious with the company’s security chief, who had just informed board members that the company still hadn’t contained Russian activity on its site.
That clash set off a reckoning for the social network. As the company tried to grapple with the public outrage over meddling in the 2016 elections, its leaders sought to mask the extent of the problem and adopted an aggressive lobbying effort to combat critics.
Our investigative journalists recreate 
Even Saudi royalty came to fear 
But now, in the aftermath of the killing of Jamal Khashoggi, their fates are unclear.
Neither was among the 18 arrested in Saudi Arabia’s own investigation into the killing. But Mr. Qahtani has already lost his title as an adviser to the royal court. Mr. Sheikh has since avoided the spotlight.
Saudi watchers say how the royal court deals with them could serve as a bellwether for its direction amid the international backlash.
The app’s image-processing robots can create montages from your library, using facial recognition to stitch together obvious highlights — birthdays, school plays — and ordinary moments, like a first haircut.
Thirty seconds into a two-minute clip of his 5-year-old daughter, he writes, “I was a crumpled, weepy wreck.”
There are delicate moments in “The New One,” the comedian Mike Birbiglia’s one-man Broadway show about fatherhood — moments that shouldn’t be interrupted by a ringing cellphone or the chime of an incoming text.
But it happens, as it does these days in theaters everywhere.
Often, Mr. Birbiglia, above, deals with the disruptions directly, using humor to turn breaches of etiquette into part of his show.
He talked to our theater reporter about (gently) confronting audience members, 
Early on Thursday, a crew of 15 will transport the Statue of Liberty’s original 3,600-pound, 16-foot torch, made of copper and amber glass, from its storage compartment in the statue’s pedestal to a museum elsewhere on Liberty Island. (A replacement torch, a copper flame covered in 24-karat gold, was added to the statue in 1986.)
Our journalists took 675 photographs to present the torch in augmented reality. 
Have a radiant evening.