
Investigators are searching charred rubble left by 
But the search has been slowed by the ferocity of the blaze. Above, Paradise, Calif.
One line of inquiry, an investigator told us: Was the culprit an electrical problem like a fallen power line? Officials have found that the main electric utility in the region was responsible for at least 17 of 21 major fires in Northern California last fall. And the utility declared that it could face crippling liability bills, potentially 
Wildfires pose the greatest risk in 
Two of Prime Minister Theresa May’s cabinet ministers — including Dominic Raab, the chief negotiator on Britain’s withdrawal from the E.U. — 
If the discontent spreads, Mrs. May’s leadership position could be in danger. But she remained unflappable, even amid reports that another minister was considering leaving.
“Am I going to see this through?” she said at a news conference at the end of the day. “Yes.”
Across social media, 
How did this all happen? Why is it taking so long? We have answers, in our guide to 
But the F.D.A. said it would pursue a long-range plan to outlaw menthol cigarettes and flavored cigars.
Both efforts are clearly aimed at restricting products that entice young people to vape and smoke.
“Almost all adult smokers started smoking when they were kids,” said the agency chief.
The plan to restrict e-cigarettes rather than ban them outright came as a surprise — 
Our health team has 
The sanctions came just hours after Saudi Arabia’s public prosecutor said he was requesting 
The prosecutor also said the 15-man team sent to confront Mr. Khashoggi had orders to return him to the kingdom, but decided on the spot to kill and dismember him — shifting the kingdom’s narrative yet again and contradicting Turkish and U.S. findings.
Turkey’s foreign minister declared the new Saudi explanation “unsatisfying” and called for an 
As the Florida Senate race 
Thousands of ballots were invalidated 
“There are dozens of reasons a signature mismatch may occur,” the judge explained. And indeed, one study found that younger voters were more likely to have their mail-in ballots rejected — partly because they didn’t use handwriting enough to develop a steady signature. Above, preparing for a recount in Palm Beach, Fla.
In the race for governor, Ron DeSantis, the Republican candidate, appeared to have enough votes to avoid an additional recount. By the end of the day, he led Andrew Gillum, the 39-year-old Democratic mayor of Tallahassee, by a margin of 0.41 percentage points. About a dozen lawsuits have been filed in efforts to extend deadlines, impound equipment and count mailed ballots that were rejected.
But a possible challenger may be emerging.
Representative Marcia Fudge, an Ohio Democrat, said she is considering a run.
Older women in the caucus almost universally support Ms. Pelosi, above, our congressional reporter writes, but some younger newcomers — especially centrists from states won by President Trump in 2016 — see a need for a new generation of leadership.
But the warming climate has brought changes so quickly that 
Our journalists used photographs and time-lapse video to capture how shorter winters and hotter, drier summers are already altering the landscape.
Still haven’t chosen wine for your feast? Rest easy. Our wine critic has 
Red or white? You want both, he writes, with good acidity, lower in alcohol and under $25 a bottle.
It isn’t Taylor Swift or Justin Bieber, or even 
Despite the international reach of those stars, the 
Its videos have been seen 53 billion times, and the channel gains over 100,000 subscribers a day, thanks in part to a rapidly growing online Indian viewer base.
Jeff Rohrer, a linebacker for the Dallas Cowboys in the 1980s, is to marry his partner, Joshua Ross, this weekend in Los Angeles.
Mr. Rohrer is the first known 
“I’ve given at least five people heart attacks with this news,” he said, but added: “My closest friends, including some of my former teammates with the Cowboys, could not have been more happy and supportive.”
Have a joyous evening.