
“We do not have Obama judges or Trump judges, Bush judges or Clinton judges,” wrote Chief Justice Roberts, left, rebuking the president. “What we have is an extraordinary group of dedicated judges doing their level best.”
Mr. Trump had criticized a ruling by Judge Jon Tigar, who ordered the administration to resume accepting asylum claims from migrants no matter where or how they entered the county.
Later, the president held his ground on Twitter, writing: “Sorry Chief Justice John Roberts, but you do indeed have ‘Obama judges,’ and they have a much different point of view than the people who are charged with the safety of our country.”
Mr. Trump had also called the Ninth Circuit a lawless disgrace and threatened unspecified retaliation.
A bitter debate erupted in Kansas City, Mo., 
The volunteers didn’t meet city requirements, she said. Above, serving food at a park.
City officials say they’re merely concerned about the safety of donated food. But volunteers call the rules a heartless technicality meant to discourage homeless people from congregating.
Indeed, in places like Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; Tampa, Fla.; and El Cajon, Calif., volunteers have been arrested or ticketed for feeding the homeless. And the National Coalition for the Homeless reports that at least 71 cities across the U.S. have tried to pass restrictions on the practice.
Paul Weiss, with clients like the N.F.L. and Citigroup, has been searching for parents separated from their children at the southern border as part of a federal A.C.L.U. lawsuit. Above, a lawyer with the A.C.L.U.
Arnold & Porter, an international firm that has advised the World Bank, represented nonprofits to block the administration’s plan to add a citizenship status question to the census.
Supporters of tighter immigration restrictions are taking notice.
“They view the influx of asylum seekers as some kind of humanitarian project,” said a director of one conservative group. “Whereas a regular American sees it as an affront to our legal system.”
As fire engulfed Paradise, Calif., most residents learned of the danger either from calling friends or from a knock on the door. 
The local sheriff’s office used what experts say is an outdated system to notify residents with a phone call. But only those who had signed up for the service got the message.
A federal system could have reached all cellphones in the area. But officials decided not to use it, partly out of fear of causing panic and traffic jams, the sheriff said.
Prime Minister Theresa May met with the European Commission president, right, in Brussels, aiming to finalize a political declaration of Britain’s post-Brexit relationship with the E.U.
They failed to reach a deal, and Mrs. May said she would return to Brussels for more talks on Saturday before a special E.U. summit meeting scheduled for Sunday.
But the delays, coupled with disagreements between France and Germany about the text, may mean that the summit meeting itself is postponed.
For Mrs. May, there was a silver lining. She has 
Beginning about 700 feet beneath the ocean’s surface is a mysterious, dark span of water that 
A study team using new technology is scrambling to explore its vast population of small, fierce inhabitants before the fishing industry moves in.
The researchers gave us a close-up look at some of the unusual creatures they’ve hauled up. Above, an elongated bristlemouth.
“Some of them look like crazy monsters,” one scientist said.
Romaine lettuce has sickened more than 30 people in 11 states with a virulent form of E. coli, 
Mindful of Thanksgiving, a spokesman for the health agency advised people to avoid all romaine and salad mixes that contain it.
“It’s especially important given that these are large gatherings where dishes containing romaine lettuce are frequently served.”
The central bank is testing 
But financial authorities are trying to slow the trend as the government grapples with what it means for society. And consumer groups warn that going cashless will hurt older people, immigrants and the disabled, who rely on banks for customer service.
Our critics raved about 
They also recommend the black-and-white 
If you’d rather stay home, HBO has begun its eight-part mini-series 
Over 1 million people will finish a race related to the holiday this year.
But don’t count on a quick jog offsetting that big feast. Experts say that running a 5K burns about 300 calories — the equivalent of a slice of pumpkin pie.
Thank you for reading. Your Evening Briefing will return on Monday.
Have a bountiful holiday weekend.