
Prosecutors also announced they 
In federal court in Manhattan, the judge said Mr. Cohen, above, had committed a “veritable smorgasbord” of crimes involving deception and “motivated by personal greed and ambition,” each of which “standing alone warrant serious punishment.”
Mr. Cohen’s sentencing involved a guilty plea in a second case as well, filed by the special counsel, Robert Mueller. Mr. Cohen admitted that he lied to Congress, failing to divulge the extent of Mr. Trump’s involvement in negotiations during the campaign to build a Trump Tower in Moscow.
“I blame myself for the conduct which has brought me here today,” Mr. Cohen told the court, “and it was my own weakness and a blind loyalty to this man that led me to choose a path of darkness over light.”
Mrs. May, above, won the support of 200 Conservative lawmakers, while 117 voted against her, a close margin. The sizable opposition could further imperil her Brexit efforts, experts said.
After the vote, Mrs. May spoke of her “renewed mission”: “delivering the Brexit that people voted for, bringing the country back together and building a country that truly works for everyone.”
Here is a guide to 
_____
The move is a clear effort to soothe Democrats eager for a new generation of leadership. Ms. Pelosi, 78, center, won an internal party vote this month to be nominated as speaker, a post she held from 2007 to 2011. But a small group of defectors has been threatening to withhold their support when the new Congress convenes next month.
China has begun to make good on some concessions, but the Trump administration is wary — and 
Adding to the urgency of the planned crackdown, U.S. investigators traced the Marriot hack that exposed the data of around 500 million guests 
But President Trump complicated the narrative, saying he’d be 
He’s not a government employee and is not subject to government ethics rules. And he has said his efforts are unrelated to — and don’t capitalize on — his representation of the president.
But Mr. Giuliani’s various interests can lead to confusion over the nature of his role. And foreign officials who have reason to want to get in or stay in the Trump administration’s good graces could view hiring Mr. Giuliani’s firm as a good way of doing so, according to ethics watchdogs.
Most of the 36 people who died were attending a party on the second floor of the converted warehouse in Oakland, Calif., above, and were unable to escape down a makeshift staircase.
Max Harris lived at the Ghost Ship, in exchange for chores and collecting the rent. 
Doctors, lawyers and other professionals who are people of color 
Unconscious assumptions about race were in the spotlight this fall, after flight attendants 
Some professionals, above, told us they speak in low tones, hoping to be less intimidating. Others wear their work IDs front and center. A lawyer in South Carolina said he avoided informal clothing on his firm’s casual Fridays.
“At times I have had to show my license to my own clients before they believed that I was the attorney working on their case,” he said.
In a story line that begins this week, a Muppet character whose family faced hunger in past episodes has lost her home. Lily’s family shuttles between shelters, stays with relatives and is taken in by a community center.
Homeless and formerly homeless parents helped early childhood experts develop the scripts. Above, Lily on set.
The story reflects a reality: In New York City, the setting of Sesame Street, one out of every 10 students was homeless in the past school year.
In person, 
As she prepares to release her first comedy special in 15 years, Ms. DeGeneres, above, is considering a much bigger change: retiring from the show that bears her name.
She’s been receiving conflicting advice from her wife, the actress Portia de Rossi, and her older brother, the comedian Vance DeGeneres — and has already changed her mind more than once.
A self-shredding artwork. Global anti-gun protests by students. The Kavanaugh hearing.
Test your endurance for 2018 all over again 
Have an eventful evening.