
LONDON — It was a symbolic moment for those who had supported Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union: In December, the country 
On Thursday, however, the current manufacturer of the British passport said that the new version — hailed by Prime Minister Theresa May as “an expression of independence” — would be made in France by a rival.
The manufacturer, a British firm called De La Rue, said it had lost out to a French-Dutch company, Gemalto, which bid 490 million pounds, or about $700 million, to win the contract.
The British Home Office confirmed that a company had been chosen to manufacture the new passports, but said it was the supplier’s responsibility to make the announcement. Gemalto did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Most European Union nations now use a shade of burgundy for their passport covers, and returning to dark blue, used for British passports issued 
As has been widely pointed out, however, the choice of color was always Britain’s to make. Although European Union regulations dictate certain elements of the passports — they must be biometric, for instance — the use of some shade of red was optional, as part of an effort to promote a sense of unity across the bloc.
“Over the last few months, we have heard ministers happy to come on the media and talk about the new blue passport and the fact that it is an icon of British identity,” the chief executive of De La Rue, Martin Sutherland, told the BBC on Thursday.
“But now this icon of British identity is going to be manufactured in France,” he added.
Mr. Sutherland said he would like to invite Mrs. May and Amber Rudd, the home secretary, to visit his factory and “explain to our dedicated work force why this is a sensible decision to offshore the manufacture of a British icon.”
The decision to change manufacturer provoked outrage among politicians who backed Brexit, and many urged the Home Office to reverse the decision.
“This should be a moment that we should be celebrating,” said Priti Patel, a Brexit supporter and former cabinet minister.
“But to be putting the job in the hands of the French is simply astonishing,” she added. “It is a national humiliation.”
The Home Office said it had run a “fair and open” competition to ensure that the new contract delivered a secure product in a way that was good value for money.
The new contract would save about $170 million over five years and create around 70 jobs at Gemalto’s offices in Britain, the Home Office said.
“We do not require passports to be manufactured in the U.K.,” a spokesman for the Home Office said. “A proportion of blank passport books are currently manufactured overseas, and there are no security or operational reasons why this would not continue,” he added.