
In March, The New York Times, working with 
March 17
The Times 
There was more. Our article first showed how Cambridge received warnings from its own lawyer, Laurence Levy, as it employed European and Canadian citizens on campaigns, potentially violating American election law. The Times also found that tranches of raw data still existed beyond Facebook’s control.
In 
March 18
The articles 
March 20
The Times reported that Cambridge 
March 21
The Times reported on a growing number of Facebook users, including the singer Cher, 
After 
March 23
As Facebook reeled, The Times delved into the relationship between 
Cambridge Analytica
March 24
The Times and The Observer 
March 28
In another report, The Times showed how an employee at Palantir Technologies — an intelligence contractor founded by the Trump backer and tech investor Peter Thiel — 
April 4
The Times originally reported that Cambridge harvested data from over 50 million Facebook users. But at the bottom of a company announcement about new privacy features, Facebook’s chief technology officer, Mike Schroepfer, issued a new estimate for the number of users who were affected: 
April 8
Amid the crisis, one set of voices remained notably absent: Facebook users whose data was harvested. So 
The Times also reported new details on the app used to collect data for Cambridge Analytica. It was no simple Facebook quiz, as many had assumed. Rather, it was attached to a lengthy psychology questionnaire hosted by Qualtrics, a company that manages online surveys. The first step for those filling out the questionnaire was to grant access to their Facebook profiles. Once they did, an app then harvested their data and that of their friends.
April 10
transcript
“Mr. Zuckerberg, would you be comfortable sharing with us the name of the hotel you stayed in last night?” “Um — no.” “If you’ve messaged anybody this week, would you share with us the names of the people you’ve messaged?” “Senator, no, I would probably not choose to do that publicly here.” “I think that may be what this is all about.” “In 2015, we heard the report that this developer Aleksandr Kogan had sold data to Cambridge Analytica.” “Did you or senior leadership do an inquiry to find out who at Facebook had this information and did they not have a discussion about whether or not the users should be informed back in December of 2015?” “Senator, in retrospect, I think we clearly view it as a mistake that we didn’t inform people. And we did that based on false information that we thought that the case was closed, and that the data had been deleted.” “So there was a decision made on that basis not to inform the users. Is that correct?” “That’s my understanding, yes.” “I assume Facebook’s been served with subpoenas from the special counsel Mueller’s office. Is that correct?” “Yes. Actually, let me clarify that. I actually am not aware of a subpoena. I believe that there may be. But I know we’re working with them.” “Thank you.” “If I buy a Ford and it doesn’t work well and I don’t like it, I can buy a Chevy. If I’m upset with Facebook, what’s the equivalent product that I can go sign up for?” “The average American uses eight different apps —” “O.K.” “— to communicate with their friends and stay in touch with people —” “O.K.” “— ranging from text apps —” “— which is —” — to email.” “Which is the same service you provide.” “Well, we provide a number of different services.” “Is Twitter the same as what you do?” “It overlaps with a portion of what we do.” “You don’t think you have a monopoly?” “It certainly doesn’t feel like that to me.” “O.K.” [audience laughs] “Do you need to look behind shell corporations in order to find out who is really behind the content that’s being posted? And if you may need to look behind a shell corporation, how will you go about doing that? How will you get back to the true, what lawyers would call ‘beneficial owner’ of the site that is putting out the political material?” “So what we’re going to do is require a valid government identity and we’re going to verify the location. So we’re going to do that, so that way someone sitting in Russia, for example, couldn’t say that they’re in America and therefore able to run an election ad.” “But if they were running through a corporation domiciled in Delaware, you wouldn’t know that they were actually a Russian owner.” “Senator, that’s— that’s correct.”
Mr. Zuckerberg made 
The next day, he faced 
On the same day as the Senate hearing, The Times reported how the Cambridge furor had 
April 19
The Times 
Matthew Rosenberg contributed reporting.