
LONDON — As 
The comedian, Eddie Izzard, who has described himself as “
Mr. Izzard, 56, may be known for laughs, but he is serious about politics, a longtime Labour supporter who has run for a position on the party’s National Executive Committee twice before.
“We must stamp out completely the stain of anti-Semitism,” 
From comedian to activist to political campaigner, here is the arc of Mr. Izzard’s unusual career.
Mr. Izzard was born to English parents in what is now Yemen, and grew up in Northern Ireland. He performed in the streets of London in the 1980s, and then embarked on his career as a stand-up comedian.
His one-man, stream-of-consciousness shows — often performed in full makeup and a dress — bounce rapidly among topics as diverse as 
“His brand of seduction aims directly at the head, not below the belt,” 
Mr. Izzard has long delivered shows in French, which he speaks fluently, as well as English. And in recent years he has performed in German and Spanish, as well.
“I’ve got this weird thing which is, for one thing, making the stuff universal,” 
Though he is most famous for his comedy, Mr. Izzard also has significant acting credits to his name.
He has appeared in the Hollywood blockbusters “
Mr. Izzard embraces challenges — like performing in other languages — with a certain fervor.
In 2009, he ran 
He has been a vocal Labour Party member for years, and was a prominent campaigner for Britain to remain in the European Union, though he ended up on the losing side of that issue.
In 2016, he toured 31 cities in 31 days to “
Not one to shy away from extravagance, Mr. Izzard added the Union Jack and the European Union flag to a perfect set of blood-red nails while he was campaigning.
Mr. Izzard, who has described himself as “a transvestite,” “a transgender guy” and “a wannabe lesbian,” has been open about his identity since the age of 23.
Being trans, he has said, has informed his politics: In 
Mr. Izzard has maintained that he has “
“I’m not wearing women’s clothes — I’m wearing clothes,” he has said in 
He has said that coming out prepared him for the ruthless world of politics.
“Well, how much hate did I get for being a transvestite? It’s very, very high,” 
“You know, if I can deal with that, then politics is easy,” he said.