
Visit The Times’s 
1. The article begins with the sentence, “This was supposed to be the year Europe put its house in order.” What does Steven Erlanger, the author, mean by that statement?
2. A few lines down, Mr. Erlanger writes, “Turmoil is now business as usual.” What are three examples of turmoil in Europe that he describes?
3. Later in the article, Mr. Erlanger explains, “The immediate question is who can organize and lead Europe now.” Why is the question of European leadership such an important issue now?
4. What are some of the most pressing problems Europe faces?
5. Many had hoped Emmanuel Macron, the French president, would become the next compelling pan-European leader. Why is Mr. Macron weakened by political problems in France?
6. Toward the end of the article, Mr. Erlanger writes, “The European Parliament elections in May will be the next test.” Why will they be a test? Why are they “pivotal”?
One of the challenges that Europe faces is, in Mr. Erlanger’s words, “the great British psychodrama of Brexit.” The latest chapter of that drama unfolded on Wednesday, when Britain’s prime minister, Theresa May, “survived the gravest threat yet to her embattled leadership” by “winning a confidence motion called by Conservative Party lawmakers angry at her handling of the country’s troubled departure from the European Union.”
Stephen Castle 
But the victory celebration, if any, is likely to be short-lived. While Mrs. May survived to fight another day, her win did nothing to alter the parliamentary arithmetic that forced her this week to delay a critical vote on her plan for withdrawal from the European Union, or Brexit.
Based on your knowledge of European affairs, what do you think will eventually happen with Brexit? Possible outcomes include a second Brexit referendum; Mrs. May losing political support; and what some are calling the “nuclear option,” in which Britain leaves the European Union with no deal. To learn more about these possibilities and others, read 
Now weigh in with your own thoughts on Brexit. What do you want to happen? Why?