
NORWICH, England — The past few months in the British Isles have been turbulent ones. Key ministers have resigned from a government that is always seemingly on the brink of collapse. Brexit negotiations with the European Union have stalled. And for much of summer, the whole country has baked beneath the kind of heat wave that hasn’t been seen for decades. 
The drought has had another surprising effect: All over the country, ghosts have been rising up out of the earth. In the fields of England, Wales and Ireland, the lost lines of houses and settlements, barrows and henges, the street plans of ancient towns from Roman times to the Paleolithic and the Middle Ages — everywhere the past is returning, written on the landscape. 
These phenomena are known as cropmarks. They are caused by variations in how different depths of soil hold water, and are a result of the presence of ancient architecture and earthworks. Where an ancient wall lies buried, water is channeled away, so the grass gets less water. Ancient ditches, by contrast, create areas of deeper soil that hold water more effectively, giving the grass a deeper green. Scarcity heightens differences: During a drought, the effect of cropmarks deepens until they become parch marks. The phenomenon is unmistakable: Wherever ancient people built their houses, penned their animals or boundaried their land, stark lines and patterns of green grass now stand out in fields of tawny hay. 
Archaeologists have long recognized the potential uses of cropmarks in reading the shape of the ancient landscape. One of the earliest written references to them was in 1789 by the naturalist Gilbert White. White drew inspiration from the locals in the swampy Hampshire fens, who used moisture on the landscape to help them locate buried bog oak — partly fossilized trees — which could be used for fuel. Could such marks, White wrote, also be used to aid in “the discovery of old obliterated drains and wells about houses; and in Roman stations and camps lead to the finding of pavements, baths and graves, and other hidden relics of curious antiquity?”
Since White’s first musings, the use of cropmarks among professionals has developed to incorporate modern technologies like infrared and thermal imaging from the air. This year, however, the combination of exceptional visibility — the parch marks have been at their most prominent since the drought of 1976 — the proliferation of small drones that allow for amateur aerial photography and social media, which allows such images to spread, has meant that the phenomenon has captured the imagination of the general public like never before. Researchers from the Royal Commission on the Ancient and Historical Monuments of Wales set off a flurry of media attention in July when they 
Surveying 
“The ancient ones have come!” one 
Others read a strange kind of hope. These lines and rings showed the landscape 
While the number of re-emerging ancient settlements has caught the public’s attention, other more modern relics of British history are also returning from oblivion. In 
Britain’s wartime past has re-emerged, too, evoking a time when Britain’s fate was tied inextricably to that of the European continent. Near Lasham in Hampshire, taxiways and runways from a World War II airfield 
In places the inscriptions on the landscape are literal. Fires in the Republic of Ireland’s County Wicklow 
The ruin, the philosopher 
This oblivion has felt closer than ever over the past few years, and this perhaps explains how firmly this year’s cropmarks have taken hold of people’s imaginations. A repeated comparison I saw 
The apparition of these traces has caused the same questions to be asked over and over: What do these strange signs mean? Are they signs of hope or omens of doom? Are they ruins or runes? When we’re gone, how will the land remember us? If these ghosts in the grass have the answers to our questions, they are not telling us. They sit in mute witness as we try to understand, waiting to disappear again with the coming of the rain.
Paul M. M. Cooper (@PaulMMCooper) is a historical novelist and a researcher working toward a Ph.D. in ruin and memory studies.