
Rising interest rates, trade war tensions and the threat of Brexit may mean that some I.P.O. procrastinators have missed their chance.
The Spanish oil group Cepsa on Monday became the latest market hopeful to put its stock market debut on hold. It joined the Dutch car-leasing company LeasePlan, which was seeking a 7.5 billion euro (about $8.8 billion) price tag according to Bloomberg, but last week said it would not proceed “due to market conditions.” The Chinese streaming service Tencent Music Entertainment has also paused plans to raise $2 billion in a U.S. listing until equity markets stabilized, Reuters reported.
Blaming the markets is far from a catchall excuse, though. The German brake maker Knorr Bremse last week raised 3.9 billion euros with an offering priced in the middle of its expected range, and the shares are up slightly since. And shares in Shurgard, a self-storage group that priced its Brussels I.P.O. near the bottom of the range, rose about 5 percent on its first hours of trading on Monday. The lesson is that, even in turbulent times, investors will support modestly-priced companies with business models that are easy to understand.
Prospective shareholders will use a bigger magnifying glass when examining harder-to-value prospects. While Tencent Music has a listed peer in Spotify, its strategy for getting listeners to pay for music in piracy-heavy China is unclear. LeasePlan struggled to reassure investors who worried that corporate clients would slash company car spending in the next recession. And Mubadala, an Abu Dhabi state investor that owns Cepsa, was seeking proceeds of 2 billion euros at a valuation premium to Spanish rival Repsol, based on Breakingviews calculations.
The trio may have missed the boat for a while. Europe’s Stoxx 50 stock index has not yet recovered from a worldwide rout on Oct. 10. So long as the Federal Reserve keeps tightening monetary policy, higher bond yields are probably here to stay. Add United States-China trade tensions and the fallout from a possible no-deal Brexit next year, and it’s hard to imagine investors taking a chance on risky I.P.O.s for some time.