
Stephen Hawking, the brilliant physicist 
Here is a selection of his quotes.
“I have lived with the prospect of an early death for the last 49 years. I’m not afraid of death, but I’m in no hurry to die. I have so much I want to do first.”
“I regard the brain as a computer which will stop working when its components fail. There is no heaven or afterlife for broken-down computers; that is a fairy story for people afraid of the dark.”
“My goal is simple. It is a complete understanding of the universe, why it is as it is and why it exists at all.”
“There is no god. I am an atheist.”
“The downside of my celebrity is that I cannot go anywhere in the world without being recognized.
transcript
“Wind back the clock.” “Wind back the clock. Until you get a universe born from a black hole exploding.” “We learn to listen.” Stephen Hawking, one of the greatest physicists of our time, didn’t let a rare motor neuron illness that bound him to a wheelchair stop him from roaming everywhere else. Despite being told, age 22, that he had only a few years left to live, he went on to live for decades more, his mind traveling through the cosmos, making breakthroughs in scientific theories on black holes and relativity, capturing the imagination of millions around the world. And he didn’t stop there. “Don’t feel bad, Lisa. Sometimes the smartest of us can be the most childish.” “Even you?” “No. Not me.” He also broke through onto our screens and radios. “You guys were never even on ‘Futurama.’ I was on three times.” With cameos on TV shows — “You made an arithmetic mistake on Page 2.” — in advertisements and in songs, becoming a pop culture icon — “If you are looking for trouble, you found it.” “Yeah, just try me, you ... ow!” — displaying a wicked sense of humor as he went. “It’s a little hard to read your tone of voice. When you say that, are you being sarcastic?” “Yes.” “I thought so.” His familiar synthesized voice graced Pink Floyd songs and TV commercials. “Mankind’s greatest achievements have come about by talking.” “Seconds after the Big Bang, called inflation, in which the ... [scream]!” He ran over rival physicists, and had other celebrities pandering to him in comedy sketches. “Time to find my new voice.” “Surely it has to be me? Listen to my voice. It’s got a tinge of physics.” He offered sound advice to the next generation. “What do you think is the cosmological effect of Zayn leaving [pop music band] One Direction?” “Finally, a question about something important. My advice to any heartbroken young girl is to pay loads of attention to the study of theoretical physics.” And in 2014, his extraordinary life was immortalized in a film entitled “The Theory of Everything.” “All the way back, to see what happened at the beginning of time itself.” While Hawking may have left planet Earth, his many fans can be sure that his legacy remains. “I could have gone on and on. Space, here I come.”
“I want to show that people need not be limited by physical handicaps as long as they are not disabled in spirit.”
“I accept that there are some things I can't do. But they are mostly things I don’t particularly want to do anyway. I seem to manage to do anything that I really want.”
“Without imperfection, you or I would not exist.” 
“The victim should have the right to end his life, if he wants. But I think it would be a great mistake. However bad life may seem, there is always something you can do, and succeed at. While there’s life, there is hope.”
“I wouldn’t compare it to sex, but it lasts longer.”
“People who boast about their I.Q. are losers.”
“The Nobel is given only for theoretical work that has been confirmed by observation. It is very, very difficult to observe the things I have worked on.”
“Life would be tragic if it weren’t funny.”
“What’s happening in Syria is an abomination, one that the world is watching coldly from a distance. Where is our emotional intelligence, our sense of collective justice?”
“I was hoping a future Miss Universe was going to step through the door.”
John Oliver, the host of “Last Week Tonight”: “You’ve stated that there could be an infinite number of parallel universes. Does that mean there’s a universe out there where I am smarter than you?”
Hawking: “Yes. And also a universe where you’re funny.”
“My advice to any heartbroken young girl is to pay close attention to the study of theoretical physics. Because one day there may well be proof of multiple universes. It would not be beyond the realms of possibility that somewhere outside of our own universe lies another different universe. And in that universe Zayn is still in One Direction. This girl may like to note that in another possible universe she and Zayn are happily married.”
“Women. They are a complete mystery.”
“I deal in tough mathematical questions every day, but please don’t ask me to help with Brexit.”
“We are just an advanced breed of monkeys on a minor planet of a very average star. But we can understand the universe. That makes us something very special.”
 “The greatest enemy of knowledge is not ignorance, it is the illusion of knowledge.”
“They’re named black holes because they are related to human fears of being destroyed or gobbled up. I don't have fears of being thrown into them. I understand them. I feel in a sense that I am their master.”
“Black holes ain’t as black as they are painted. They are not the eternal prisons they were once thought. Things can get out of a black hole both on the outside and possibly to another universe. So if you feel you are in a black hole, don’t give up — there’s a way out.”
A.I. could be the “worst event in the history of our civilization.”
“Climate change is one of the great dangers we face and it’s one we can prevent.”
“If aliens ever visit us, I think the outcome would be much as when Christopher Columbus first landed in America, which didn’t turn out very well for the Native Americans.”
“I think it would be a disaster. The extraterrestrials would probably be far in advance of us. The history of advanced races meeting more primitive people on this planet is not very happy, and they were the same species. I think we should keep our heads low.” 
“Stupid. Robots would do a better job and be much cheaper because you don't have to bring them back.”
“We are running out of space, and the only place we can go to are other worlds. It is time to explore other solar systems. Spreading out may be the only thing that saves us from ourselves. I am convinced that humans need to leave Earth.”
“Remember to look up at the stars and not down at your feet. Try to make sense of what you see and wonder about what makes the universe exist. Be curious. And however difficult life may seem, there is always something you can do and succeed at.”