
Since the 2004 tsunami that claimed around 230,000 lives across 14 countries, Indonesia has tried to upgrade its disaster response system.
But no warning siren was sounded before the wave hit. None of the 22 buoys monitoring for tsunamis were functional.
Scientists were surprised by the size of the tsunami, and 
_____
That’s Bill Wolsey, owner of a chain of hotels, pubs and restaurants in Northern Ireland, where fears about Brexit have taken on an apocalyptic cast. Think blackouts, border troubles and a disastrous fall in tourism. Britain 
Prime Minister Theresa May’s proposal for an orderly exit is widely opposed. Whether her government survives, let alone whether Parliament passes a Brexit deal by the deadline, is an open question.
In case there is no deal and the worst happens, pharmaceutical companies are stockpiling medication, and a government minister has been appointed to look after food supplies. Observers are drawing comparisons to the atmosphere before World War I.
_____
Central to that decision was 
“You are telling all women that they don’t matter,” one told him.
The F.B.I. will question 
We also 
_____
Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, above, Myanmar’s civilian leader and a Nobel Peace Prize laureate, was once hailed as a beacon of hope who would steer the country away from decades of military rule and into a stable democracy.
Instead, she has turned a blind eye as the military has persecuted Rohingya Muslims, suppressed freedom of speech and done little to advance women’s rights.
Our reporter charts Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi’s 
_____
In August, Vanesa Campos, 36, a transgender Peruvian prostitute, was shot and killed in a western Paris park as thieves tried to rob her client, who survived. “Vanesa was murdered; the state is complicit,” protesters chanted in Paris last month. Above, mourners paying tribute to her.
French prostitutes say they have experienced a surge in violence since the passage of the law, which penalizes those who pay for sex rather than those who provide it. Because they shoulder the legal burden, clients have become far more demanding and prefer more isolated spots.
Prostitutes have joined in asking for a review of the law’s constitutionality.
_____
More than 90 percent voted in favor of the name change, but turnout was so low that the measure may not pass muster in Parliament. Above, supporters of a movement to boycott the vote.
The governing Social Democrats and Western leaders had pushed hard for a resounding popular mandate for the name change. “North Macedonia” would appease Greece, which rejects Macedonia’s name in a historical dispute, and pave the way for NATO membership. The vote was preceded by Russian disinformation against the name change.
“The park is a paradise that makes even the loss of Eden seem insignificant,” 
He was describing Yosemite National Park, created today in 1890, in large part through his efforts.
Growing up in 
His first glimpse of the Yosemite area, in 1868, transformed him. He roamed it endlessly. He called sheep set to graze there “hoofed locusts” for devouring the greenery. He worried about commercial exploitation and 
“Somehow most of these travelers seem to care but little for the glorious objects about them,” he wrote.