
Pilots said the aircraft maker didn’t tell them about 
Investigators have been focused on whether the emergency system caused the accident. It’s designed to automatically correct a plane’s angle if it appears to be stalling. But if it malfunctions, it could send a plane into a potentially fatal nose-dive.
Indonesian transportation officials have said the manual for the new Boeing model didn’t contain information about the update. And pilots said the onboard check list, which contains information about overriding the emergency system, was incorrect.
More than 4,700 orders have been placed worldwide for the Max 8. It is especially popular with low-cost carriers looking for dependable workhorses for shorter flights.
The precise cause or causes of the crash remain unknown.
_____
That’s what one operative said to a superior over the phone shortly after the journalist Jamal Khashoggi was killed at the Saudi consulate in Turkey, 
A recording of the conversation was shared with the C.I.A. last month, and U.S. intelligence officials believe “your boss” refers to Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, presenting the strongest evidence yet that links him to the killing.
On Tuesday, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey pressed Prince Mohammed for answers. “We want the person who gave the order to be revealed,” 
The new evidence also intensifies pressure on the White House to take more punitive action against Saudi Arabia, an important ally.
_____
After months of deadlock, Britain and the E.U. have reached a 
But there’s still a long road ahead. The plan first needs approval from Prime Minister Theresa May’s cabinet, where hard-line Brexiteers could put up a fight, then from a Parliament stacked with opponents. Here are all the 
Details of the outline agreement aren’t available yet, but the prime minister has made it clear she wants to avoid a so-called “no-deal” Brexit, an abrupt withdrawal with no measures to avoid a chaotic transition.
The cabinet is scheduled to meet today. If members give the plan the green light, European leaders will need to give it their blessing at the end of the month. Britain is scheduled to leave the bloc in March.
_____
Moscow’s meddling in U.S. elections is not a hoax.
The 2016 presidential campaign capped Russia’s decades-long strategy of creating divisions in the West and undermining democracies, often in places ill-equipped to combat the threat.
Our Opinion team paired up with the BBC to produce a three-part documentary — “Operation InfeKtion” — that exposes 
_____
Would you order books, clothes and appliances from a company whose name accidentally evoked a mortuary? Or, deliberately, ruthless persistence?
In 1994, Jeff Bezos considered many potential names before choosing Amazon, evoking the world’s largest river. Now, 24 years later, his bookseller has expanded into one of the world’s largest retailers, and it’s splitting its second headquarters between a Washington suburb and a New York neighborhood.
Would it have been as successful had Mr. Bezos stuck with 
He hasn’t ever fully given up on Relentless.com, which still forwards to Amazon. (The company’s naming is recounted in 
Worth noting: Amazon’s corporate arrival in New York City, 