
The average woman has her period for 2,535 days of her life. That’s nearly 
And lately, women — and transgender and nonbinary people who menstruate — are talking about it in public more than ever before. There are new products and services on the market, from menstrual cups to period underwear to medicinal cannabis and “period coaches.” Globally, advocates are 
Let’s unpack that.
“Menstrual equity” refers to equal access to hygiene products, but also to education about reproductive health. And it’s the focus of a variety of new laws and policies to provide menstrual products in prisons, shelters, schools and even on Capitol Hill.
Advocates are also urging states to exempt menstrual hygiene products from sales tax, arguing that they’re a necessity.
A frequent refrain: Why are 
Increased media coverage and some high-profile episodes — like 
Last month, a member of Britain’s Parliament 
A New York congressman recently 
And India said on Saturday that it would 
Here’s an overview of the issues that women’s health advocates are talking about.
Laws in several states now mandate access to menstrual products in correctional facilities, shelters and schools. Two prison reform bills in the Senate — including 
In the House, Representative Grace Meng, Democrat of New York, has introduced two related bills. 
“Interest in this issue grows every single day,” Ms. Meng said. “It’s really about accessibility and equity.”
That’s the same argument that Representative Sean Patrick Maloney, Democrat of New York, made after he was ordered to reimburse the Committee on House Administration for menstrual products.
The committee rebutted Mr. Maloney’s account. But that didn’t stop him and Ms. Meng from writing 
“We applaud you for making toilet paper available,” they wrote. “We implore you, however, to go one step further and make feminine hygiene products available to those who need them.”
In the last two years, New York, Illinois, Florida and Connecticut have abolished sales tax on menstrual products. That brings the number of states that tax such products to 36 — and lawmakers in two dozen of those states have introduced bills to nix the tax.
“That menstrual equity and health would be such a prominent, bipartisan and very public matter is, in my mind, not just really heartening but enormously telling,” said Jennifer Weiss-Wolf, author of the 2017 book 
There are similar efforts underway around the world, including in Britain, where the campaign to “ax the tax” got caught up in the Brexit debate. Laura Coryton, a young British activist, started a 
But lawmakers were unable to repeal the tax because of European Union rules, and it became a rallying point for the pro-Brexit camp. Lawmakers have pledged to abolish the tax 
Canada also 
Dr. Julitta Onabanjo, the regional director for the United Nations Population Fund in East and Southern Africa, said there has been a groundswell of advocacy around menstrual health management.
In May, the organization hosted 
Some countries in the region have made bold moves: Kenya and Uganda abolished sales tax on menstrual hygiene products, while Zimbabwe subsidizes local manufacturers. The Kenyan government also provides funding for pads in schools.
But Dr. Onabanjo cautioned that access to products is only one factor. Clean water and sanitation facilities, information and medical treatment are all important. Poverty, of course, greatly complicates the effort to manage periods with discretion and dignity. And some symptoms, like heavy bleeding or debilitating pain during menstruation, can indicate a more serious condition requiring medical attention.
Girls and women around the world must also contend with cultural stigma, shame and 
Even more troubling, studies in Kenya have found that poorer girls may trade sex to afford pads, making them vulnerable to sexually transmitted diseases.
“We really want to ensure that going forward, this is seen as a sexual and reproductive health and rights issue,” Dr. Onabanjo said.
New products and services are promising to make periods less burdensome, from period-tracking apps and coaching on nutrition and self-care, to items like environmentally friendly reusable pads, absorbent underwear and cups.
The creators of the popular app Clue say they have 2.5 million users in 180 countries, and 
Product developers are working on the next generation of devices. The creators of 
In the 
“What I do is help women become more informed about how their bodies work,” said Erica Chidi Cohen, co-founder and chief executive of 
That includes being aware of hormonal changes throughout the month, and how one’s energy might ebb and flow at different points. Some of her clients plan big events, like business trips, based on their cycle.
“It can actually be a very positive thing if we learn what’s happening and lean into it,” she said.