
LONDON — Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, has struck a conciliatory tone in the wake of a data-privacy scandal. That was not the case on Wednesday for the former chief executive of Cambridge Analytica, a consulting firm at the center of the controversy.
Alexander Nix, who led Cambridge Analytica until it suspended him in March, defiantly shot back at accusations from British lawmakers that he or his company engaged in unethical business practices, abused information pulled from the social network or played a role in the British vote to leave the European Union.
In a contentious hearing before Parliament’s media committee, Mr. Nix said Cambridge Analytica did at one point have data on millions of Facebook users. The data was harvested from the social network without the users’ consent. But, he said, Cambridge Analytica didn’t find the information useful and deleted it after a request from Facebook.
His comments contradicted evidence presented by a former Cambridge Analytica employee, Christopher Wylie, who has said the data was central to Cambridge Analytica’s political consulting work for Donald J. Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign. Mr. Wylie has also suggested that Cambridge Analytica did advising work for the Brexit vote.
Mr. Nix criticized Mr. Wylie as a “bitter and jealous” former employee bent on sabotaging the company in order to start a rival business.
“I’m sitting here and being subjected to frankly ridiculous accusations based on the most tenuous connections that simply aren’t supported by evidence,” Mr. Nix said when denying that Cambridge Analytica had worked for campaigns in favor of leaving the European Union.
“You’re building a conspiracy,” he said at another point.
The hearing was the first chance British authorities had to question Mr. Nix since 
Cambridge Analytica, backed by Stephen K. Bannon, the former White House political adviser, and Robert Mercer, the hedge fund billionaire, used Facebook data to create psychographic modeling techniques to target voters. While former employees have said Facebook information was critical to building products that Cambridge Analytica deployed in the 2014 and 2016 American elections, Mr. Nix played down the importance. He said the company had gotten data from many sources, including Acxiom, Experian and Infogroup.
Beyond that, Mr. Nix largely declined to speak about the Cambridge Analytica-Facebook controversy, citing a continuing investigation by Britain’s data protection authority, the Information Commissioner’s Office. The lawmakers did not press him about the company’s work with the Trump campaign.
The revelations about Cambridge Analytica have led to a global reckoning about the information Facebook has amassed on its roughly two billion users, and the ways that information can be manipulated to sway voters and tailor advertisements to specific types of people.
Mr. Zuckerberg was called to testify before 
Lawmakers on Wednesday grew increasingly frustrated with Mr. Nix’s aggressive responses.
“You’ve attempted to paint yourself as the victim,” one member of Parliament said. “You’re not the victim.”
Mr. Nix shot back: “What if I was the victim?”
He said Cambridge Analytica was a convenient target for those angry about Mr. Trump’s victory and the Brexit result.
“We were simply the guys who were perceived to have contributed,” Mr. Nix said.
He saved some of his sharpest remarks for Mr. Wylie. “It’s funny how all your evidence circles all back to one individual,” Mr. Nix said.
Mr. Nix has also faced questions about Cambridge Analytica’s work in other campaigns. Channel 4 News in Britain 
Mr. Nix apologized to lawmakers on Wednesday, but also said he was the victim of an “entrapment sting” by the television network. Channel 4 defended its reporting in a statement.
New questions are now being raised about whether Mr. Nix tried to remove money from Cambridge Analytica as the damaging news reports were being published. 
Mr. Nix told lawmakers that the report wasn’t accurate. When pressed about the payment again later, he declined to comment and said he had to review the matter with his lawyer.
The months of news reports have made Mr. Nix the face of a broader debate over how social media platforms can be gamed to win votes, and whether they must be more tightly regulated.
In addition to the Parliament inquiry, the Information Commissioner’s Office is expected to publish a damning report on Cambridge Analytica this month.