
The British prime minister survived the gravest threat yet to her leadership, 
Mrs. May won the support of 200 Conservative lawmakers, while 117 voted against her. But the sizable opposition could further imperil her Brexit efforts, experts said.
_____
Trade negotiations between China and the U.S. 
Adding to the urgency of the crackdown: The Marriot hack that exposed the data of around 500 million guests was 
But President Trump complicated the narrative, saying he’d be 
Compounding tensions, Beijing has said that 
_____
After federal agents raided Mr. Cohen’s office and home, he turned on the president and made the remarkable admission in court that Mr. Trump had directed him to arrange payments to a porn star and a former Playboy model before the 2016 election.
Prosecutors also announced that the tabloid publisher 
Mr. Cohen’s sentencing involved a guilty plea in a second case as well, filed by the special counsel, Robert Mueller. He admitted that he lied to Congress, failing to divulge the extent of Mr. Trump’s involvement in negotiations to build a Trump Tower in Moscow during the election campaign.
“I blame myself for the conduct which has brought me here today,” Mr. Cohen told the court, “and it was my own weakness and a blind loyalty to this man that led me to choose a path of darkness over light.”
_____
When a group of Asian-Australian students started their Facebook group in September, it was to share jokes and memes about their experiences “being brought up in the in-between,” as one founder put it.
Now 
“We don’t have to explain stuff,” another founder explained. Above, six of the group’s nine founders.
_____
Maybe the world is not so small after all — even in an age of mass culture.
In Spain, drumming parties called 
The cultural agency of the U.N. recently added 
The idea is to recognize and preserve unique and impalpable rituals that are passed down through generations. Unesco acknowledges music and dance, hunting practices and traditional crafts, knowledge about nature and the universe — in short, the things that tell us who we are.
Traditions in danger of vanishing are given a special designation. This year those included 