
Beneath initial pleasantries, both sides were working to ease a diplomatic crisis.
The U.S. seems to be leaving room for a new version of events, with President Trump suggesting that perhaps “rogue killers” had been involved. But links between Crown Prince Mohammed and 
A person familiar with Saudi plans told us that the kingdom was likely to admit that Mr. Khashoggi died at its consulate in Istanbul during an interrogation.
That could put Mr. Trump in an awkward position. He doesn’t want the case to affect arms sales. And while the U.S. is 
In 2016, Democrats lost the governorship and every statewide office but one. It held only about a quarter of seats in the state Legislature, not a single one in a rural district.
How to reclaim voters seemingly lost to Republicans? Joan Barry, above, a member of the Democratic state committee, believes that the party should welcome people like her — Democrats who oppose abortion.
But the city has not come to terms with another part of its Jim Crow legacy: a school system that segregates students from the time they start, and steers them into separate and unequal tracks.
Railroad tracks divide the city into three predominantly white elementary school zones to the north and three mostly black schools to the south. They frame one of the widest educational disparities in the United States. And since 2005, the gulf between white and black students has widened in nearly all subjects, including reading, writing, history and science. Above, two seniors at Charlottesville High School.
The New York Times and ProPublica worked together on this 
The rule, which dates to 1920s bribery investigations during Warren Harding’s administration, allows the House Ways and Means Committee to request any filer’s tax returns from the Treasury Department.
Democrats have already invoked the provision 17 times to demand the president’s tax returns, and have been blocked by the Republican majority.
Fearing chaos when Britain leaves the E.U. in March, “Brexit preppers” have been stockpiling everything from couscous to toilet paper.
If the country is not able to negotiate a graceful exit, it could face 
“People are talking about World War II and rationing,” one prepper said.
Over time, the community grew, attracting a few dozen people, above.
But soon they will have to move. Akron is one of several Midwestern cities coping with homeless encampments, and city officials said the tent community violated zoning rules. And with neighbors complaining about the site, the City Council voted against making an exception.
Gymnasts complained that Mary Bono, above, a former congresswoman, had 
She was also affiliated with a law firm that advised the organization as it delayed revealing what it knew about sexual abuse committed by Lawrence Nassar, its national team doctor, who is now serving a prison term of 40 to 175 years for the abuse.
After months of silence, the chef 
It’s another reflection of the ways the #MeToo movement has gained force, upending entertainment and politics.
But how do abuse and sexual violence that take place at home fit into the conversation? We looked at factors that make victims of domestic violence 
Get into the spirit with an apple pie for practice, then work on fall side dishes like a 
Lots more 
Our reporters and photographers met peanut farmers, heart surgeons, pastors and teachers. Above, a fishing boat in Everglades, Fla.
All across the country, they captured unannounced moments of joy, struggle and hope.