
LONDON — In the annals of British political protest, the giant balloon is the current weapon of choice.
A month ago, protesters hoisted a 
On Saturday morning, a Briton who says the mayor, Sadiq Khan, is not doing enough to fight crime returned the favor and launched a giant balloon of Mr. Khan near Westminster.
The new 29-foot inflatable is the idea of Yanny Bruere, who says he is a free-speech advocate incensed by rising crime. 
A small crowd cheered and shouted, “Higher! Higher!” as the balloon took to the sky, wobbling as if buffeted by a breeze. It depicted a scowling Mr. Khan lying on his side, one hand behind his head, wearing a yellow bikini.
The mayor brushed aside the planned balloon launch in a segment on ITV London on Thursday, saying: “If people want to spend their Saturday looking at me in a yellow bikini, they’re welcome to do so. I don’t really think yellow’s my color though.”
Questions about the true intent of the launch were raised after an
Mr. Bruere did not immediately respond to a request for comment by Facebook message on Saturday about the Bellingcat claims. But 
To Twitter commenters who called the brown-skinned, hooknosed balloon image of Mr. Khan a racist caricature, 
By Saturday, the crowdfunding page had raised more than 59,000 pounds, over $76,000, for Mr. Bruere’s “Make London Safe Again” campaign. The slogan echoes the Trump presidential campaign slogan, “Make America Great Again.”
The original balloon plan seems to have been to fly a “Baby Khan” inflatable dressed in a diaper, like the Trump version. But that morphed into the bikini-clad inflatable — an apparent reference to the mayor’s decision in 2016 to ban what officials called body-shaming advertisements, such as the “Beach Body Ready” campaign depicting 
Pro-Brexit groups 
The mayor and Mr. Trump have had a long-running feud: Mr. Khan has lashed out at Mr. Trump 
After a long period of steady declines in violent crime, 
Since 2017, the city has unfurled strategies 
In April, after six people were killed in shootings and stabbings in seven days, Mr. Khan said he supported the use of 
Those behind the balloon campaign seem to be tickled by the fact that any inflatable depicting Mr. Khan would have to be approved by the mayor’s office to fly near Parliament. On the crowdfunding page, it reads: “In light of the Donald Trump ‘Baby Trump’ balloon being allowed to fly over London during his visit to the U.K., let’s get a ‘baby Khan’ one and see if FREE SPEECH applies to all and whether or not Mr. Khan and the London Assembly will also approve this.”
On Thursday, a spokesman for the mayor said that City Hall had, indeed, given Mr. Bruere permission to fly the balloon near Parliament Square Garden from 9:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. local time. The Metropolitan Police and the National Air Traffic Services also signed off, 
A spokesman for City Hall did not reply to an email asking if officials had been 