
Investors in European initial public offerings have a lot of choice at the moment, which means they can afford to be picky. They can thank Britain’s impending exit from the European Union.
The French solar power company Neoen on Tuesday said it could be valued at up to 1.5 billion euros, about $1.8 billion, in an initial public offering, the same morning as Netherlands-based LeasePlan announced its intention to float. That followed initial price ranges announced this week by the Spanish oil group Cepsa and a self-storage group called Shurgard. For some companies, it’s a treacherous time to raise capital. Britain’s Aston Martin and Funding Circle recently sold shares toward the bottom of their ranges, and have since fallen further.
There are good reasons for this torrent of I.P.O.s.
First, stock market valuations are rosy after nearly a decade of easy central-bank policy. That may end as the United States Federal Reserve raises rates. Europe’s STOXX 50 index has been trading at close to 10 times forward earnings since early 2014, compared with an average over the last decade of 8.8 times. And since companies’ current owners can only sell down their stakes slowly after an I.P.O., it makes sense to list well before markets turn.
Second, the possibility of a no-deal Brexit early next year is spooking bankers. Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain has said that leaving the bloc in March 2019 without a tariffs or customs agreement in place is preferable to a “bad deal.” Even if that is just posturing, some members of May’s party could vote down a deal that she brings to parliament, which could lead to Britain falling out of the bloc with a possible Europe-wide market collapse. As a result, bankers are hurrying to get deals done now.
In the current deluge of I.P.O.s, bankers have to price offerings modestly in order to get attention. Cepsa’s initial range, for example, was below initial expectations for the Abu Dhabi-owned group.
Boring companies with easy-to-understand businesses — like the braking systems maker Knorr-Bremse — will be an easier sell than those with complex business models, like the loss-making peer-to-peer lender Funding Circle and serially bankrupt Aston Martin.
It had been a sparse year for I.P.O.s in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, with a 6 percent annual decline in volumes in the nine months to September. That forced investors to take what was on offer.
With a flood of issues now hitting the market, investors are finally getting the upper hand — and can choose carefully.