
The UK’s finance minister has taken the plunge with a new plan for taxing technology giants — but it is flawed.
Britain’s chancellor of the Exchequer, Philip Hammond, on Monday unveiled a 2 percent tax on the revenue that big search engines, social-media platforms and online marketplaces earn in the country.
The digital-services tax appears to target Amazon, Facebook and the Alphabet business Google. All of those companies have been criticized for shifting revenue and costs between jurisdictions, allowing them to minimize profit where tax would otherwise be burdensome. Operating in the virtual world — and with the resources available to three of the six largest public companies on the planet — makes that easier than for traditional businesses that have a physical presence.
The European Union is considering a similar tax at 3 percent. That is billed as a stopgap, with the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development working on a revamp of cross-border tax rules that would allow the value added to a virtual business by a country’s citizens — be it via their data or online purchases — to be identified and taxed in that jurisdiction. But that’s a long shot.
Meanwhile, there are problems with Mr. Hammond’s measure.
First, the tax may not be aggressive enough. Take Facebook as an example: It generated over 2.2 billion British pounds, or about $2.9 billion, of British digital ad revenue in 2017, according to the market research company eMarketer. A 2 percent slice of that would have earned the government some £45 million. Facebook’s British subsidiary had a bill for cash corporate taxes of just £16 million in the same year.
That looks like a step in the right direction. But Facebook’s consolidated pretax profit margin topped 50 percent last year. Assume the same for the United Kingdom under a new global regime with a 20 percent tax on profit, and the company could have been on the hook for well over £200 million. So it might be better for companies to take a chances with Mr. Hammond’s levy.
Another difficulty is that the biggest companies caught by such a tax are based in the United States. Rightly or not, that smacks of protectionism, sour grapes or both. And Washington has little incentive to negotiate, especially if it might lose some of its own tax revenue.
Mr. Hammond is also risking a backlash just as Britain heads for Brexit. It’s bold to try to provoke wider change — but in this case, it might not work.