
In a Monday prime-time special, President Trump 
It’s unclear when a confirmation hearing will be held for Mr. Kavanaugh, although Republican leaders are pushing for approval before the Supreme Court’s next term starts in October. The White House has unleashed a 
Depending on the race, the nomination 
The Daily: 
On Washington: 
Mr. Trump embarked on a 
In talks in Brussels with the leaders of the 29-country Atlantic alliance, Mr. Trump 
In Britain, Mr. Trump 
transcript
Today, a grand jury in the District of Columbia returned an indictment presented by the special counsel’s office. The indictment charges 12 Russian military officers by name for conspiring to interfere with the 2016 presidential election. The defendants worked for two units of the Main Intelligence Directorate of the Russian general staff, known as the G.R.U. The defendants used two techniques to steal information. First, they used a scheme known as spear phishing, which involves sending misleading email messages and tricking the users into disclosing their passwords and security information. Second, the defendants hacked into computer networks and installed malicious software that allowed them to spy on users and capture keystrokes, take screenshots and exfiltrate, or remove, data from those computers. The defendants accessed email accounts of volunteers and employees of a U.S. presidential campaign, including the campaign chairman, starting in March of 2016. They also hacked into the computer networks of a congressional campaign committee and a national political committee. I briefed President Trump about these allegations earlier this week. The president is fully aware of the department’s actions today. There is no allegation in this indictment that any American citizen committed a crime. There’s no allegation that the conspiracy changed the vote count or affected any election result. The special counsel’s investigation is ongoing and there will be no comments on the special counsel at this time.
The Justice Department 
On Thursday, Peter Strzok, an embattled F.B.I. agent removed from Robert S. Mueller III’s investigation for texts showing apparent political bias, 
News Analysis: 
The Trump administration again threatened China over trade
This latest round would 
The tensions 
The first wave of reunions between migrant families separated at the border 
On Thursday, the administration 