
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
Here’s the latest: 
The president made 
Mr. Trump told reporters
In California, farm workers are being sickened by a dangerous pesticide. In West Virginia, the largest inland waterway is being contaminated with selenium, a pollutant that can wipe out aquatic life.
These are just some of the effects of President Trump’s 
But as our reporters discovered, the policy changes are affecting the health and safety of people across the United States.
In 1998, Ireland and Northern Ireland, which is part of Britain, signed the Good Friday Agreement that ended decades of violent conflict known as the Troubles.
Since then, people, livestock and goods have flowed freely between Ireland and Britain, both members of the E.U.
But now, Brexit threatens to 
In November of last year, 20 people drowned while trying to get to Europe from Libya. Forty-seven others were captured by the Libyan Coast Guard and bought back to suffer abuse, including rape and torture.
A nearby ship that belonged to a German humanitarian organization, Sea-Watch, wasn’t able to intervene and rescue them. A French vessel in the vicinity refrained from responding.
Our journalists produced 
The 
Fashion has played a significant role in the heritage, economic development and identity of France, and dress has often signaled and symbolized change.
In the late 18th century, during the French Revolution, a significant component of the uprising sported working-class pantalons — basically trousers — instead of the fancy knee breeches, or culottes, worn with heels and stockings by the male aristocracy. The insurgents have gone down in history as “without breeches,” or 
In 1968, France’s student rebellions against capitalism and American imperialism (among other isms) redefined associations with berets, turtlenecks, boots and tartan.
In both cases, the visual messaging communicated allegiance as effectively as any slogan or protest poster — and became exports as successful as Brie and Champagne.