
“Mortal Engines” takes place after the “Sixty Minute War” has brought humanity to the brink, and the world’s metropolises have escaped from their locations. It is the era of “municipal Darwinism,” when “predator cities” rove on wheels and “ingest” smaller ones, assimilating their populations and looting the spoils. In the opening sequence, London devours a Bavarian mining town.
The allegorical potential seems obvious. Do rural areas fear urban domination? Is Brexit involved? (“We should never have gone into Europe,” frets Magnus Crome, the vaguely imperial ruler of London played by Patrick Malahide.)
But to ask such questions is to insist that the movie, the first adapted from a series of books by Philip Reeve, bear freight it doesn’t want. To the extent that “Mortal Engines” resembles anything, it’s other movies, which it plunders with a landfill-diving zeal that suits the surviving populace.
The setting — a muddy wasteland where people scavenge for food and fuel — 
But the guiding model for the plot — rebel alliances, secret family histories, London as a terrestrial Death Star — is almost certainly “Star Wars,” whose knockoffs are so numerous that it seems useless to dock points for effort. As these things go, “Mortal Engines” offers a fair amount of fun.
Walsh and Jackson, also on the producing team, bring more quality control (and a lower 
Our human points of entry are Tom (Robert Sheehan), the son of historians and a would-be aviator, and Hester (the Icelandic actress Hera Hilmar), who seeks to avenge her mother’s murder by the power-hungry Thaddeus Valentine (Hugo Weaving). In a refreshingly unfamiliar cast, the most familiar member — apart from Weaving — is an unrecognizable Stephen Lang, as what can only be called an undead cyborg.
Attention has clearly been paid to detail. This is a movie in which St. Paul’s Cathedral houses a nuclear weapon, and product placement overrides any aesthetic. Universal, this film’s distributor, might be pleased to hear that a dystopian-era London museum has preserved the legacy of 
And while “Mortal Engines” offers plenty to snicker at, the same might be said of the ancients’ movie formulas.