
The Italian luxury brand canceled a Shanghai fashion show after 
It started with an ad on Instagram showing a Chinese woman trying to eat cannoli with chopsticks — a post that many found patronizing. Then commenters got an unexpected response: crude private messages from Mr. Gabbana.
The brand said its Instagram account and Mr. Gabbana’s had been hacked. But that explanation didn’t convince everyone.
The controversy showcased how China’s voluble online audience can quickly punish companies, especially foreign ones, when they offend — a fact that many brands have learned the hard way. Above, a Dolce & Gabbana store in Beijing.
_____
Prime Minister Theresa May met with the European Commission president, right, in Brussels, aiming to finalize a political declaration of Britain’s post-Brexit relationship with the E.U.
They failed to reach a deal, and Mrs. May said she would return to Brussels for more talks on Saturday before a special E.U. summit meeting scheduled for Sunday.
But the delays, coupled with disagreements between France and Germany about the text, may mean that the summit meeting itself is postponed.
For Mrs. May, there was a silver lining. She has 
_____
The president sought to order the Justice Department to prosecute two of his political adversaries, 
The encounter was one of the most blatant examples yet of how Mr. Trump views the typically independent Justice Department as a tool to be wielded against his political enemies.
Separately, Mr. Trump’s lawyers have 
“It is time to bring this inquiry to a conclusion,” his lawyers said.
Here’s how 
_____
Earlier this month, a Somali-born man set his car on fire in Melbourne and attacked random bystanders with a knife. He injured two people and killed one man: Sisto Malaspina.
Mr. Malaspina, commemorated above, was an immigrant, too, from Italy. And he is widely credited as the man who 
His life and killing, which the police are treating as an act of terrorism, encapsulate Australia’s hopes and fears around immigration, writes our food columnist Besha Rodell.
_____
_____
They called it 
Nearly 40,000 immigrants became U.S. citizens in a flurry of ceremonies that culminated on this day in 1985.
The new Americans came from Mexico, Vietnam, Cuba, Morocco, Sri Lanka and over a hundred other countries. They were sworn in just in time to celebrate Thanksgiving.
Ceremonies were held in shifts in the Los Angeles Convention Center. 
Chief Justice Warren Burger of the Supreme Court led a similar 
Chief Justice Burger emphasized that the “great Lady of Liberty faces not the West, to our land, but out to the sea as a welcome to those who seek our kind of freedom.”
Above, a more recent naturalization ceremony.