
LONDON — The Royal Academy’s annual 
This year, over 20,000 works were submitted to that committee, which was led by the artist Grayson Perry and featured other leading British artists like Cornelia Parker and Phyllida Barlow. Just 827 made the final cut.
But all the thousands of rejected artists should not feel too bad, because a global superstar was rejected too: the graffiti artist Banksy.
On Monday, Bansky said 
A month later, Mr. Perry contacted Banksy and asked if he would submit a piece. Banksy sent a revised version of the rejected work, which is now on display.
In a statement, the Royal Academy confirmed Banksy’s account but added, “The work currently in the summer exhibition is different from the original version submitted.” Mr. Perry did not respond to a request for comment.
The Banksy work on display, “Vote to Love,” is a commentary on Britain’s decision to leave the European Union. It features a “Vote to Leave” placard used during campaigning around the 2016 Brexit referendum. Banksy has altered the placard to say “Vote to Love.”
In the exhibition catalog, the work is priced at 350 million pounds, or around $468 million — somewhat above Banksy’s auction record of $1.87 million. The price is a tongue-in-cheek reference to a much-mocked claim by the Vote Leave campaign 
The exhibition catalog asks potential buyers to “refer to sales desk” to learn the actual cost. (The Royal Academy would not provide it when approached.)
Banksy is not the first person to submit works anonymously to the annual exhibition. In 1947, Winston Churchill 
Banksy has succeeded in getting works into major British and American museums and galleries by unorthodox means before. In 2005, he 
Most commentators on Banksy’s Instagram post were supportive, but some said the committee had made the correct decision in rejecting the work first time round. “Let’s be honest, Banksy,” reads one comment: “This is a weak piece devoid of the trademarks for which you’ve become known. Submitting under a fake name allowed the judge to evaluate without the weight of your reputation and he made the right call.” The commenter added the hashtag #YouCanDoBetter.