
LONDON — Presenting the agreement she had negotiated for 
The laughter that followed from the chamber, customary for the House of Commons, was soon reflected on social media in posts that mixed ridicule and frustration with the country’s latest political crisis. Mrs. May had received grudging support for the deal from most of her cabinet, followed by high-profile resignations in protest.
By the time Mrs. May finished answering questions from lawmakers on Thursday, the mood online was clear: #brexitchaos and #brexitshambles were top trends on Twitter in the afternoon. 
Social media users in Britain wrote of their disillusionment with the government’s efforts, and their confusion about the Brexit deal.
The most high-profile resignation was that of Dominic Raab, the Brexit minister. Reaction to his departure mostly pointed to the fact that he resigned to protest a deal he had helped negotiate, just as it was being presented to the country.
The comments echoed those after the Brexit referendum in 2016, when David Cameron, who organized the vote as prime minister, 
The British pound fell sharply after the resignation of Mr. Raab, a prominent Conservative lawmaker, prompting Twitter users to worry about the state of the British economy after Brexit. Fears of recession, job losses and food shortages, already percolating for months, spiked on Thursday.
By late afternoon, the question was not just whether Mrs. May could secure backing for the draft deal in Parliament, but also whether she would remain in power. She announced she was holding a news conference at 5 p.m.
Jacob Rees-Mogg, a prominent supporter of Brexit and a conservative critic of Mrs. May’s government, said he would support a vote among Conservative lawmakers to remove her as prime minister.
Before sending a letter of no confidence in her, he asked on Twitter if it was time. The response from his supporters was predictably positive, but others said they did not welcome the uncertainty that a leadership challenge would bring. 
Claire Barthelemy contributed reporting.