
After postponing a crucial vote in Parliament, Mrs. May set out on 
But European leaders expressed resistance to further negotiations. “There is no room whatsoever for renegotiation,” said the president of the European Commission. Some saw a metaphor when Mrs. May was briefly 
British officials said Parliament would get a chance to vote on the deal by Jan. 21. But opposition lawmakers had little faith in such assurances — and most people in the country have no idea what could happen next.
_____
Officials in Beijing and Washington 
President Trump claimed progress — “Very productive conversations going on with China,” he wrote on Twitter. And 
But complications remain. Meng Wanzhou, Huawei’s chief financial officer who has been accused of evading U.S. sanctions against Iran, is still awaiting a ruling in bail hearings in Canada where she was arrested. Above, the scene outside her hearing.
Adding to tensions, 
_____
The president, in an extraordinarily public altercation at the White House on Tuesday, 
The testy back-and-forth with Democratic congressional leaders, pictured above, raised fresh concerns that the two sides might not reach an agreement on spending bills by a Dec. 21 deadline, just before Christmas.
Mr. Trump wants 
The meeting was the first test of the new power dynamics in Washington, as Democrats prepare to take control of the House next year.
_____
• 
In the capital city of Colombo, 
And they start calling early: “We have people who start their day with us — they get up in the morning, call us and then go to work,” the hotline’s manager said.
The service’s 90 or so volunteers, some of them pictured above, are helping a country grappling with 
At the end of the day, the volunteers travel long distances to return to their homes. One holds a business card with a verse from the Quran on the back: “Saving one life is like saving the whole of humanity.”
_____
A heated session of British Parliament turned to chaos on Monday night when a member of the House of Commons 
The mace represents the crown’s authority, and Parliament can’t sit or pass laws without it.
Traditionally, the person in charge of guarding the mace — and restoring order in rare mace-snatchings — is the 
The sergeant’s role, which 
You can’t miss the sergeant — the 
After Monday’s breach of protocol, the troublemaking lawmaker 