
A naval standoff between Russia and Ukraine edged toward the possibility of wider war.
Waving a sheaf of paper as he spoke to Parliament, above, President Petro Poroshenko of Ukraine said he had intelligence on Russian preparations for a ground offensive, although analysts told us an invasion seemed unlikely. Parliament voted to 
The murky Russian attack Sunday on Ukrainian ships in waters near Crimea is coming into somewhat clearer focus. Russia acknowledges firing on the ships as they tried to pass through the narrow Kerch Strait and seizing them along with 23 Ukrainian sailors, who are still being held.
At a special session of the U.N. Security Council, Ambassador Nikki Haley of the U.S. called the attack an “arrogant” and “outlaw” act, echoing Britain, France and others.
NATO said it would increase its military presence in the area and called on Russia to guarantee freedom of navigation for Ukrainian ships in the Kerch Strait — through which Russia, seeming to tamp down the confrontation, has allowed cargo traffic to resume.
_____
That was President Trump’s response to a report by 13 federal agencies that says global warming will inflict deep damage on the U.S. economy — causing a knives’ drawer of different disasters, like wildfires and crop failure — unless drastic action is taken to reduce carbon emissions. Above, a refinery in Port Arthur, Texas.
We looked at how Mr. Trump’s administration is moving 
From smokestacks and cars to methane and coal, Mr. Trump’s regulatory rollbacks have been systematic, and the atmospheric impact will be global.
_____
Wahidullah Khan, 19, was a commando for the Afghan military when he opened fire last month on Czech soldiers at an air base in western Afghanistan, killing one of them. Above, the coffin arriving in Prague.
Quickly taken into NATO custody, he was beaten and returned to Afghan troops unconscious, Afghan and American officials told our journalists. Shortly afterward, he died.
Now 
The Czech Republic, which has about 250 soldiers in Afghanistan, denied that its soldiers were involved in the death.
_____
Completing a journey of six months and 300 million miles, NASA’s InSight lander 
When it sent a confirmation signal back to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in California, scientists there started cheering. “My inner 4-year-old came out,” said the mission’s project manager, Tom Hoffman, seen above with the first image sent by InSight.
In the months ahead, the lander will listen for tremors — marsquakes — and collect data that will be used to map the crust, mantle and core of Mars, helping scientists understand how the rocky planet and others, like Earth, formed.
How exactly do you land on Mars? First, as our interactive explains, 
In the U.S., the Thanksgiving leftovers are gone. The rush of Black Friday shopping is over. Cyber Monday deals are wrapping up.
And now comes a chance to shift attention away from consumption.
Today is 
At its core: “The idea that no act of giving is too small to make an impact,” one of the organization’s executives told The Times.
That same belief inspired Adolph S. Ochs, above right, the publisher of The Times, to 
That encounter led Ochs to found the 
After all, as one longtime donor summed it up: “We’re all in this together.”