
Rescue teams and firefighters are still at work in southeast Australia — and gratitude for their efforts is peaking — as the toll from raging bushfires mounts in two southern coastal states.
No serious injuries or deaths were reported as of Monday night.
The 
In Victoria, firefighters 
_____
Mr. Trump, who has begun 
But 
“Mr. President, the American people will hear my story very soon,” Mr. Comey tweeted back, apparently referring to his forthcoming book. “And they can judge for themselves who is honorable and who is not.”
A former C.I.A. director was far harsher in his response to a Trump tweet: “When the full extent of your venality, moral turpitude, and political corruption becomes known, you will take your rightful place as a disgraced demagogue in the dustbin of history.”
_____
The social network has continued to 
The firm’s so-called psychographic modeling underpinned its work for the Trump campaign in 2016, as well as a related company’s work for Brexit.
An undercover investigation of the data company by Britain’s Channel 4 News captured the chief executive, Alexander Nix, saying that 
_____
Mass protests and 
Aung San Suu Kyi, the Myanmar civilian leader under international pressure for her country’s deadly military campaign against Rohingya Muslims, 
_____
A giant inflatable yellow duck that was blown out to sea during her Perth swimming club’s annual ocean swimming competition 
A fisherman located the now world-famous duck some 35 kilometers, or 20 some-odd miles, west of Rottnest Island — and posted a ransom.
The swim club’s president plans to meet with the fisherman on Wednesday, and hopes for an amicable resolution that will send Daphne bobbing home.
Today, we end with a note from the outgoing writer of our European edition, Patrick Boehler:
Since these briefings’ inception over a year ago, this has been the question I have been asked the most:
“How do you know what Europeans want to read?”
That’s a fair question for a journalist, albeit a European one, who has spent most of his adult life in Asia, and still is there.
It is also a legitimate question for a U.S. newspaper at a time in which American news cycles are focused on the twists and turns of a tumultuous presidency.
So, here’s what we do:
Every day, we spend hours poring over correspondents’ dispatches and news reports from across Europe, from Northern Ireland to Turkey.
In conversations with editors, we seek to distill wider trends from the day-to-day politics and give you what you need to know to start your day.
Of course, the result has often been a compromise. Is it flawed? Always.
But that’s the rule for all early drafts of history.
My last briefing is tomorrow’s, but I’d like to invite you to keep reading, keep debating and keep challenging assumptions. Thank you for your time! Now enjoy your morning coffee.