
It’s not easy to discern a political “crisis” in a country that has had at least 64 governments since World War II, but at the least, the Italian president’s 
In normal times, the president of Italy plays a largely ceremonial role in his gilded Quirinal Palace. But when two disparate anti-establishment parties, the Five Star Movement and the League, came to him with plans to form a coalition that included proposals for enormous new spending and a finance minister openly hostile to the shared European currency, 
Technically, President Mattarella blocked only the appointment of Paolo Savona, an 82-year-old economist tapped to be finance minister, on the ground that his covert plans to exit the euro posed a risk “for Italian families and their savings.” But the impasse over Mr. Savona prompted the coalition’s lowest-common-denominator choice for prime minister, an obscure law professor named Giuseppe Conte, to bow out, leading the president to ask Carlo Cottarelli, a solidly pro-Europe and pro-austerity economist and former official of the International Monetary Fund, to form a nonelected government. Mr. Cottarelli said new elections would be held in early 2019, though they could be held as early as September if he fails to survive a confidence vote.
Opponents of the coalition cheered Mr. Mattarella’s action as a courageous blow against the dangerous rise of populism and irresponsible programs that would have vastly increased public spending in a country already saddled with a 2.3-trillion-euro ($2.7 trillion) debt. The spurned parties, which had struggled since national elections on March 4 to overcome profound differences and form their coalition, complained of unwarranted presidential interference in a legitimate political choice. The leader of the Five Star Movement, Luigi Di Maio, called for the president to be impeached, while the League’s leader, Matteo Salvini, threatened to organize a march on Rome.
There is no real danger of Mr. Mattarella being removed or Rome sacked. A 
However spooked the markets were, they had been equally wary of the coalition and its grandiose spending plans, and given the mutual hostility of the coalition partners, their government might not have survived for long. Mr. Mattarella’s stand, at least, gives Italian voters a second chance to weigh their options after glimpsing what their earlier choices might mean. That’s something some Brexit voters in Britain, or Trump voters in the United States, might have welcomed.