
Former President George H.W. Bush will be 
President Trump designated Wednesday a 
Former President George W. Bush, Mr. Bush’s son, will deliver a eulogy at the service, which President Trump and all the other living former presidents — Jimmy Carter, Bill Clinton and Barack Obama — are expected to attend.
_____
Since Mr. Bannon was pushed out of the White House last year, he has had dozens of meetings 
Together, the unusual pair, pictured above, have a common, if overly grand, objective: bringing down the Chinese Communist Party.
_____
President Emmanuel Macron’s government announced it 
The tax increase, which was scheduled to start in January and has been put on hold for six months, amounted to 25 cents a gallon. It proved to be a tipping point for a country that has some of the highest taxes in Europe, particularly among people in small villages and towns who have been grappling with stagnant salaries and steep utility costs.
Anger over the tax added to wider discontent with Mr. Macron, who the working class views as a 
The country has an increasingly wide wealth gap, with a median monthly income of $1,930 and an unemployment rate that has stubbornly hovered around 9 percent for years. 
_____
Britain could unilaterally reverse course on withdrawing from the E.U., according to 
The news came as lawmakers were set to begin debating Prime Minister Theresa May’s Brexit blueprint ahead of a final vote next week. Most analysts expect her deal to fail, which could force Mrs. May, above, to renegotiate the agreement or even break up her government.
If the full European court confirms the nonbinding legal opinion, Britain would have until March to rethink its divorce from the bloc — a glimmer of hope for those who want to stay in the E.U.
_____
Eighty-five years ago today, America once again stepped up to the bar.
On Dec. 5, 1933, Utah, of all places, became the 36th state to ratify the 21st Amendment, enough to end national Prohibition.
One of the wealthiest men in the world, du Pont was also among the most prominent “wets” — as opponents of Prohibition were called. He helped lead a powerful lobbying group with a not-so-hidden agenda: bring back booze, and make income taxes unnecessary with renewed levies on legal alcohol.
He succeeded, to a point. The end of Prohibition injected millions of dollars into the federal Treasury. But income and corporate taxes went up, too.
Du Pont’s folly was America’s gain — and a reminder that in politics, things rarely turn out the way you want, no matter how much money you have.