
The carmaker’s board and investors have been worried about Elon Musk’s erratic behavior for some time — and especially after his out-of-the-blue tweet about potentially taking the company private. In 
At multiple points in an hourlong interview with The New York Times, he choked up, noting that he nearly missed his brother’s wedding this summer and spent his birthday holed up in Tesla’s offices as the company raced to meet elusive production targets on a crucial new model.
He also laid out a timeline of how he ended up sending that tweet. One tidbit: He bumped up the price tag, which he’d calculated at $419 a share, to $420 because it was more auspicious. (He added, “I was not on weed, to be clear.” But his use of Ambien and, occasionally, recreational drugs worries his board.)
The conversation isn’t letting up. Kara Swisher of NYT Opinion calls him the “
For his part, Mr. Musk has no regrets: “Why would I?”
Some 1,400 employees have signed a letter saying that the tech giant’s work on a censored Chinese search engine raises “
Google’s C.E.O., Sundar Pichai, said at a staff meeting yesterday that the company isn’t close to unveiling that search product. Yet he added, “If we were to do our mission well, we are to think seriously about how to do more in China.”
It’s the latest sign of the company 
Bayer closed its $63 billion takeover of Monsanto two months ago and only began integrating the businesses this week. But Monsanto’s legal troubles have already 
The problem is Monsanto’s signature weedkiller, Roundup:
■ A California jury awarded a terminally ill groundskeeper $289 million because of his exposure to the product.
■ California’s Supreme Court declined to hear an appeal to have its main ingredient removed from a list of carcinogens.
The good news, says Bayer, is that it’s prepared to fight, and can now become “actively involved” in the legal cases. It’s unclear whether that will stem the flood of red ink from one of the most immediately value-destructive takeovers in recent memory.
At a time when many Americans fret about their retirement savings, Fidelity says that in the second quarter the number of its 401(k) accounts with more than $1 million 
To be clear, that number is 168,000, and Fidelity has 16.1 million customers. But it’s another sign of the U.S.’s relative economic health. (One more: Fewer Americans are borrowing from their retirement savings.)
As worries grow that the stock market’s hot streak will end soon, however, so should fears of that paper wealth largely evaporating, as it has done in previous transitions from boom to bust.
The Silicon Valley behemoth has made billions through “microtargeting” technology, which lets it target ads to as few as 20 specific people. But government officials, researchers and ad executives are calling for 
More from Natasha Singer of the NYT:
“It has essentially weaponized ad technology designed for consumer products and services,” said Sarah Golding, the president of the Institute of Practitioners in Advertising, an industry organization in Britain. Her group recently called for a moratorium on political microtargeting. “There is a danger that every single person can get their own concerns played back to them,” she said.
Facebook executives say they’re taking steps to curb abuse, including tougher verification standards for political ads. Critics worry that isn’t enough — and the midterms are coming.
President Trump escalated his rhetoric on America’s opioid crisis yesterday, telling Attorney General Jeff Sessions to 
Drug makers’ stocks didn’t move much, perhaps because no one’s yet certain the lawsuit will happen.
The OxyContin maker Purdue Pharma is preparing for pain anyway. It has reportedly 
We’re 
That hands a small number of coders, tweaking the algorithms that determine who sees whom across the virtual bar, tremendous power to engineer mating outcomes. In authoritarian societies especially, the prospect of algorithmically arranged marriages ought to cause some disquiet. Competition offers some protection against such a possibility; so too might greater transparency over the principles used by dating apps to match people up.
Volvo Cars is said to be moving forward with an I.P.O., with hopes of a $30 billion valuation. (
DoorDash’s latest financing round more than doubled the food delivery company’s valuation, to $4 billion. (
The hedge fund manager Cliff Asness defends stock buybacks. (
Omarosa Manigault Newman was offered a $15,000-a-month job to stay quiet about her time in the Trump administration, according to a new recording. (
The Trump administration’s push against Obama-era energy regulations depends on questionable math. (
Robert Mueller’s prosecutors are keeping even their Shake Shack orders secret. (
More people in Britain now think Brexit will harm the National Health Service than help it, a poll found. (
President Trump says he’s in no hurry to rewrite Nafta. (
Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin threatened yet further sanctions on Turkey. (
Britain wants to retain existing trade agreements after Brexit. It’s likely to struggle. (
Elon Musk’s Boring Company wants tariff relief. (
Kroger is testing driverless deliveries in a suburb of Phoenix. (
An Australian teenager is accused of breaking into Apple’s network and downloading sensitive data. (
The chip maker Nvidia’s dominance in cryptocurrency gear appears to be waning. (
A.I. still isn’t that intelligent. (
The F.D.A. has approved a generic competitor to the EpiPen. (
“Crazy Rich Asians” reflects a racial shift in the 1 percent. (
Netflix has signed Kenya Barris, creator of ABC’s “Black-ish,” to a production deal. (
It’s summer camp, but for corporate retreats. (