
Stephen Colbert heralded the news on Tuesday from Thailand, where 12 boys and their soccer coach were 
“All 12 Thai boys and their coach have been rescued from the cave that they were trapped in for more than two weeks. That feels good. In fact, it’s a great story that gives everyone hope. And it reminds us of the importance of permission slips for field trips to flooded caves.” — 
“Everybody loves this story. Are you listening, Mr. President? Freeing children makes people 
Conan O’Brien was surprised to see the amount of interest the story had generated among Americans.
“All 12 of those Thai boys and their soccer coach have been saved from the underwater cave. Very nice story. It’s a historic moment: This is actually the most Americans have ever cared about any soccer team, ever.” — 
O’Brien took a look at Brett Kavanaugh, Trump’s pick for the Supreme Court, on Monday, and noticed one particular thing he’d written in the past.
“President Trump’s Supreme Court nominee, Brett Kavanaugh, once wrote that presidents should be shielded from prosecution while in office. He didn’t write this in a ruling — he wrote it on a cake he sent to Trump three days ago.” — 
Colbert’s critique of Kavanaugh wasn’t so sophisticated.
“Now, I don’t know much about Kavanaugh, but I’m skeptical — because his name is Brett. That sounds less like a Supreme Court justice and more like a waiter at Ruby Tuesday’s. ‘Hey, everybody, I’m Brett, I’ll be your Supreme Court justice for tonight. Before you sit down, let me just clear away these rights for you.’” — 
Colbert reacted to the nomination with mock glee. He pulled out a card and declared: “I’ve got Trump nomination bingo! See, it’s all squares that say, ‘White guy.’”
“On his trip to Great Britain, President Trump is going to meet Queen Elizabeth. Yeah, he’s going to ask the queen about Brexit, immigration and how to stay in power for 60 years.” — 
“President Trump made his pick for the Supreme Court — he chose Brett Kavanaugh. He narrowed his candidates down to three, but in the end Brett Kavanaugh was the white man for the job.” — 
Somehow, Kimmel convinced a bunch of people to do belly flops on national TV, under the guise of a competition.
The celebrity chef Marcus Samuelsson introduced Colbert to cricket powder. It’s exactly what it sounds like.
Dwayne Johnson appears Wednesday on “The Late Show.” Will those 
A young writer thought she was making a 