
There was a time when keeping Europe together, politically, economically and militarily, was an American priority. Emerging powerful after World War II, the United States worked hard to build a Western community of values, trade and security around the trans-Atlantic alliance, proudly claiming the title of the leader of the free world.
President Trump has taken a different approach. The diplomatic niceties, the liberal values, the rules, the international institutions, the multilateral gatherings, the noble causes — it all rubs Mr. Trump the wrong way. When Chancellor Angela Merkel was wrestling with a dire political crisis in Germany this week, Mr. Trump jumped in with a typically 
In effect, the American president was being gleeful that the government of the most important nation in Europe could collapse, with huge ramifications for the Continent and the trans-Atlantic alliance. But was his tweet just a burst of schadenfreude from a mean, impulsive and narcissistic bully? Or is destroying the postwar order an ideological mission for Mr. Trump, as it is, say, for President Vladimir Putin of Russia or, at home, for Mr. Trump’s erstwhile consigliere Stephen Bannon?
These questions have bedeviled European leaders, and many Americans, as Mr. Trump has blithely alienated America’s friends and allies, canceled hard-won accords, dumped on trade treaties, threatened trade wars, lauded ruthless despots and cheered populist demagogues.
In the end, the “why” hardly matters. Trumpism, whatever its genesis, has been loosed upon the world, and the question is how those who believe in the value — and values — of the postwar order should respond. It has become evident that flattering Mr. Trump will get you nowhere. Swapping insults, as Donald Tusk, the president of the European Council, 
Europe’s response to Mr. Trump must begin with a hard look at realities. Europe is badly splintered, North vs. South, East vs. West, by economic crises, mass migration, the rise of populism and a widespread skepticism, most notably expressed by Brexit, about the benefits of a united Europe. Hostility to Mr. Trump will not be enough to unite the Europeans anytime soon on issues such as eurozone reforms, trade or asylum, especially as he is held on high by much of the European far right.
Mr. Trump is right, moreover, to charge, as have his predecessors, that Europe is not paying its fair share for Western security. Spending by NATO members has improved, and today only the United States and seven other members spend at least 2 percent of their gross domestic product — the NATO guideline — on defense, according to new administration data. That has to improve even more, not only out of fairness, but also if Europe wants to remain relevant in world affairs.
But the Europeans and members of the broader Western community can and must hold firm against Mr. Trump’s bullying. The United States is not as dominant as Mr. Trump wants to believe: The European Union, Canada and Asian countries are already responding to Mr. Trump’s protectionism with separate multilateral trade deals, and they should do what they can to impress on American industry the huge cost of a full-blown trade war. Signatories to the Paris climate accord and to the Iran nuclear deal must likewise keep these pacts alive even without the United States.
At every turn, they must proclaim that rules, relations and values assembled over generations do matter and are worth fighting for. And when they do so, they should keep in mind that many influential Americans are on their side in opposition to Mr. Trump’s reckless whims, including many Republicans and even some people within the administration.