
Our guides gave us clues more than conclusions. They pointed to the garden for guards’ families, set up to resemble an English country estate. They told us about punishment. They shared tales of individual prisoners and the British commandants who ran the place.
But it was the cemetery just off the coast that lingered in my mind.
Port Arthur’s upper-class overseers called it Isle of the Dead or Isle de Mort, and they were buried with headstones on the island’s highest point.
The convicts just called it Dead Island. Their remains landed in unmarked graves near the water so their watchmen, our guide told us, “could look down on them in death as in life.”
Some of the convicts probably deserved it. But walking among Port Arthur’s dead, it was hard to escape the sanctimonious rigidity of the English class system, made even more extreme by the culture of 19th-century incarceration.
I found myself imagining a prisoner who had arrived young, grinding out a 10-year sentence under the harsh condescension of British soldiers. He’d depart with a skill — Port Arthur was basically an industrial labor camp — but how could he not also leave with a deep disgust for class distinctions and authority?
Here, I thought, lie the roots of Australia’s egalitarian ethos, traced back to a visceral rejection of the hierarchy that defined prison settlements like Port Arthur.
This, after all, was the place for castoffs. Delinquent boys as young as 9 and troubled men with wives and children (not to mention a few meddlesome Irish and American activists) were all shipped off in former slave ships and put to work here in a country that was not easy to tame.
The challenges of the land required camaraderie. The British system enforced divisions, putting a small elite above a mass of rebels and rogues. No wonder that those who stayed in Australia preferred to see themselves as “mates” more than gentlemen.
Nick Dyrenfurth, a historian who wrote “Mateship: A Very Australian History,” has argued that convicts were the first to embrace the concept.
“The convicts brought with them from Britain the term ‘mate,’ and they used it amongst themselves,” 
American culture bears a similar imprint. We like to see ourselves as revolutionaries who defeated British pomp and monarchy with guerrilla war tactics and demands for equality.
But, of course, history is a forever struggle. What we choose to promote and overlook often changes, and reveals more than we may intend.
The United States continues to grapple with the legacy of slavery; It took until 2016 for the country to create and open 
Tasmania’s convict past was also sidestepped for decades, with Port Arthur left in ruins before becoming what it is today: an impressive apparatus for remembering, complete with a ferry, interactive exhibit for children and well-trained guides.
But seeing Port Arthur transformed raises additional questions. (The mass shooting that happened here in 1996 is a subject for another day.)
Richard Flanagan, the Tasmanian novelist, laid out the challenge better than I could in a 
His critique was not with remembering the Great War’s heroes, but rather with the lack of investment in other elements of the country’s past — one glaring blind spot in particular.
“We could ask why — if we were actually genuine about remembering patriots who have died for this country — why would we not first spend $100 million on a museum honoring the at least 65,000 estimated Indigenous dead who so tragically lost their lives defending their country here in Australia in the frontier wars of the 1800s?” he said. “Why is there nowhere in Australia telling the stories of the massacres, the dispossession and the courageous resistance of these patriots?”
His full argument goes beyond questions and critique (though there are plenty of both). He also offers a path forward and a measure of hope even for those who disagree with him.
And it’s rooted in what I observed on Dead Island, in the way that the rigidity of one era had given birth to something more fluid, more equal and new.
“We pretend that our national identity is a fixed, frozen thing,” Richard said. “But Australia is a molten idea.”
In other words, history matters not just because it never disappears, but also because it does not dictate. It can prompt change.
The question is: How?
I’d love to hear about your views on that — and about your experiences with Australian history.
When did you connect with the past in a way that felt real and revealing? Or when have you thought the process of remembering needed to evolve?
You know how to find me: Email 
And if you like what we’re doing with this newsletter, forward it, and tell your friends to 
Now for some of my favorite stories this week, and a recommendation we know you’ll love.
______
Speaking of England and rebellion, check out 
Does the past hold too much sway for all of us, or just those who romanticize a rugged cruel occupation?
______
Now here’s an interesting opener for 
Hats off to the writer, 
______
______
______
We noticed that you like our monthly guides to Netflix Australia (
“A Quiet Place” seems to be a local and international favorite.