
President Trump’s treasury secretary, Steven Mnuchin, is in 
Over the weekend, Saudi Arabia admitted that 
Western politicians (except Mr. Trump, 
The crisis has 
_____
During a trip to Moscow that begins today, President Trump’s national security adviser, John Bolton, above right in June with President Vladimir Putin, is expected to tell Russia that the U.S. is withdrawing from a 1987 treaty that barred both countries from producing, testing or possessing certain missiles.
Russia has been violating the treaty since at least 2014, and a U.S. pullout would allow it to better counter a Chinese arms buildup in the Pacific. But it may also accelerate Cold War-like behavior among the three powers. (Mikhail Gorbachev, who signed the treaty along with Ronald Reagan, on Sunday 
_____
Poland’s governing populist party — 
But for the Law and Justice party, the result was a decline from national elections in 2015, when it tallied almost 38 percent support. And its message also fell flat in Warsaw, the capital, in a sign that it 
Separately, Europe’s top court ordered Poland’s leaders on Friday to 
_____
Italy is expected to respond today to criticism by the European Commission that its new budget would amount to an unprecedented breach of the European Union’s budgetary rules. Above center, Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte.
The budget — which includes plans to introduce a basic income for poor Italians and to lower the retirement age — prompted Moody’s Investors Service to 
_____
For women who work physically demanding jobs in the U.S., pregnancy discrimination is sometimes a matter of life and death.
Our investigation — based on thousands of pages of court and other public records — 
Yet the only federal law aimed at protecting expecting mothers at work in the U.S. is 40 years old — and just four paragraphs long.
Above, Chasisty Bee, who in 2014 collapsed at work and later miscarried.
• 
•
“Je refuse le prix,” Jean-Paul Sartre said on this day in 1964.
With these words, the French writer and philosopher, above, became the first person 
But the Swedish Academy wasn’t the first to hear them.
A young journalist 
Interrupted before the cheese course, Sartre was stunned to hear that he had just been named the academy’s literary laureate. (A week earlier, after learning that he had been nominated for the honor, he wrote to the jury asking not be chosen. His letter 
That evening, Sartre read 
Official honors, he said, exposed his readers “to a pressure I do not consider desirable.”
The jury did not change its decision.
More than a decade later, Sartre, or someone related to him, allegedly asked for the money that he had turned down, 
This time, it was the academy that declined.