
LONDON — Guests, celebrities and a handful of enthusiastic royalists descended on Windsor on Friday for 
And just like Meghan, Duchess of Sussex, who managed to keep the 
“I’m not telling anyone who is making it, but I can say it is a British-based designer,” the Princess told British Vogue this summer. The dress, she said, “is the one thing that I was really decisive about. As soon as we announced the wedding, I knew the designer, and the look, straight away.”
On a blustery fall morning where guests quite literally had to hold onto their hats, the grand reveal finally arrived. The princess had chosen Peter Pilotto, a London-based fashion house with two creative directors, Mr. Pilotto and his partner, Christopher de Vos, to create a showstopping silk-jacquard gown that felt like a perfect choice for a modern-day princess.
The dress was simple and elegant: white, pure and sculptural with long sleeves, a portrait neckline that folded around her shoulders, and a specially designed sweeping back that showed off the bride’s scars from an operation to straighten her spine. In a television interview this week, the princess had hinted that she wanted her wedding gown to showcase the scars as she paid tribute to the hospital and doctors that had performed her surgery in 2002 following a diagnosis of scoliosis.
“I’m a patron of their appeal,” the princess said during an interview with “This Morning” on ITV, “as I had an operation when I was 12 on my back. You’ll see on Friday, but it’s a lovely way to honor the people who looked after me and a way of standing up for young people who also go through this. I think you can change the way beauty is, and you can show people your scars, and I think it’s really special to stand up for that.”
In a break with tradition, the bride did not wear a veil. She did, however, wear the dazzling 
 The bride also wore Charlotte Olympia shoes, and a pair of diamond and emerald drop earrings, a wedding day gift from Mr. Brooksbank, whom she dated for eight years after meeting him on a skiing holiday in Verbier, Switzerland.
Mr. Pilotto and Mr. de Vos, who first met while studying at the Royal Academy of Fine Arts in Antwerp, Belgium, are best known for their colorful and graphic aesthetic, which was on display at their most recent runway show at London Fashion Week last month. But unlike Sarah Burton of Alexander McQueen and Clare Waight Keller of Givenchy, the designers who created the wedding gowns of the Duchess of Cambridge and Duchess of Sussex, neither Mr. Pilotto nor Mr. de Vos are actually
Their efforts were appreciated by Mr. Brooksbank, 32, the European Manager for Casamigos Tequila, the alcohol brand founded by Hollywood actor George Clooney.
“You look perfect,” he said, as his bride joined him at the altar.