
Mr. Smiejek, 40, could relate to life in post-conflict Belfast. He was born and raised in Poland while it was still part of the Soviet bloc, and his experiences before and after the Soviet collapse gave him an affinity for how onetime enemies and neighbors can heal from past wounds.
“I am from working-class family and I grow up in difficult conditions with lots of problems in my home and at the streets, not that bad as conflict, but I know how 
Mr. Smiejek was a portrait photographer who had settled in London in 2004 after years of traveling through Europe. But he was attracted to the idea of working on long-term photo projects, which led him to the situation in Northern Ireland.
Growing up in Poland, he had known only a little about the region’s history. “We are a post-Soviet country, so we had been cut off from information from the West,” he explained. “As a teenager, I saw pictures on television, and I do remember the reports talking about the Troubles, the I.R.A. and bombings. I saw the pictures and videos. That stayed in my head.”
He first ventured Belfast 
In subsequent trips, which he made every two weeks, Mr. Smiejek walked around and talked to people in parks and pubs about their past and their hopes for the future. But while he photographed both Protestants and Catholics, he gradually zeroed in on the Loyalists. Connecting with an organization that promotes restorative justice, he began to explore the Protestant communities.
“There was a lack of knowledge about the Protestants, Loyalists and paramilitaries,” he said. “Everybody I talk to from other countries, when they think about Northern Ireland, they think I.R.A.”
With the help of a fixer and people who worked on the ground with NGOs, he began to widen his circle of subjects, meeting with families as well as historical societies run by former paramilitary members who shared their stories.
Mr. Smiejek’s images show Loyalists preparing for their marches in Protestant neighborhoods, or the bonfires set ablaze on the eve of July 12, which commemorates the victory of King William of Orange at the Battle of the Boyne in 1690. Some are surreal, like the image of a double-decker tour bus spotted past one of the brick walls dividing neighborhoods.
“After the bands marching on the streets, the bonfires are the biggest sign of the Loyalists in Northern Ireland,” he said. “Some families have years, even generations building the bonfires. And the kids are from families who were involved in the Troubles.”
Memories remain, as people remember the victims, Mr. Smiejek said. But he noted that others remained committed to forging a new path. “We have many people who have had enough and who finally want peace, who want to remove the walls and go forward and make this country better,” he said.
The borders and checkpoints that once marked the border between Northern Ireland and the rest of the island have gone. But the United Kingdom’s decision to leave the European Union — Brexit — has clouded the future, with Ireland remaining in the E.U. Mr. Smiejek, who continues to follow the story as an associate of the Belfast-based Institute for Conflict Research, wonders if more than just borders could return.
“Who knows what will be next?” he said. “Some people think if a hard border needs to be done, that will be like the past coming back. That maybe the Troubles would come back. We don’t know what will happen.”