
BERLIN — President Trump castigated the German government on Monday for 
He followed a day later with a 
Here are some of Mr. Trump’s assertions on Twitter and fact checks of those statements.
Crime statistics for 2017 showed the lowest level of crime in Germany in 25 years, according to 
Although there have been attacks by militants aligned with the Islamic State, as well as high-profile murders and assaults by migrant men, the statistics refute Mr. Trump’s suggestion.
Not only was the overall crime rate down 5.1 percent over the previous year, violent crime (down 2.4 percent) and property theft (an 11.8 percent decrease) both dropped.
So-called street crime was down by 8.6 percent. In cases where a suspect had been identified, crimes committed by non-Germans were down by 2.7 percent, while crimes committed by Germans were down by 2.2 percent.
Fraud (up 1.3 percent), computer fraud (a 2.8 percent increase) and drug offenses (9.2 percent higher) all rose, but the number of illegal border crossings dropped 79.9 percent.
Migration is at the heart of the current political crisis in Germany — the country is struggling to absorb more than one million migrants — and threatens to tear apart the governing coalition led by Ms. Merkel and her Christian Democratic Union.
The issue has weakened Ms. Merkel and her party, contributing to an environment in which far-right groups have flourished. But there are no clear indicators that the German people as a whole have turned against the government.
It is true that 
The reason for the political crisis is a split in Ms. Merkel’s coalition. Interior Minister Horst Seehofer, leader of the Christian Social Union, is facing elections in Bavaria against the far-right Alternative for Germany party, or AfD.
Although the AfD’s level of support in polls is only about 15 percent, Mr. Seehofer wants to stem the party’s momentum and protect his flank on the political right.
Ahead of a state election in Bavaria in October, Mr. Seehofer is demanding that the government tighten its policy on accepting migrants who are arriving in Germany through another European Union country. Ms. Merkel has resisted, since the change would violate European Union law.
There is little doubt the huge wave of migration that began hitting Europe in 2015 has placed enormous strains on European unity. Leaders and officials have been unable to come up with a practical and cohesive strategy to deal with the influx of a mostly Muslim migrant population.
The tensions have been visible in various forms around the Continent:
• Migration played a crucial role for British voters to decide withdraw from the European Union, commonly known as 
• 
• 
Most recently, 
And yet, for all of that, there is little to support Mr. Trump’s declaration that migration has “strongly and violently” changed European culture. It has certainly changed European politics, though.