
The Justice Department is investigating Mr. Cohen’s involvement in paying women — including the model, Karen McDougal — to tamp down embarrassing news stories about Mr. Trump ahead of the election.
Prosecutors want to know whether the payment violated federal campaign finance laws.
The Trump campaign previously denied knowledge of any payments to Ms. McDougal. But Rudolph Giuliani, Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, called the tape “powerful exculpatory evidence.”
The amphibious boat, or duck boat, overturned in Table Rock Lake near Branson, Mo., around 7 p.m. on Thursday as winds exceeded 60 miles per hour.
When the boat sank to the bottom of the lake, 31 people were onboard, all of whom are now accounted for, the authorities said. Above, a memorial for the victims.
After news of President Trump’s plan to invite the Russian leader, Vladimir Putin, to the White House, 
Marina Gross, left, was the only other American in the room during the meeting on Monday. Lawmakers have already called for her notes, wary of what assurances were exchanged between a Russian leader known for blatant denials and an American president known for frequent falsehoods.
“This is an absolutely nightmarish situation for anyone to be in,” said the former head of the State Department’s interpreting division.
“The United States should not be penalized because we are doing so well,” he tweeted.
He also said the Fed’s plan to raise rates — known as tightening because it makes borrowing more expensive — “hurts all that we have done.”
And in Congress, Republican lawmakers 
The E.U.’s executive arm urged countries to accelerate preparations “at all levels and for all outcomes.”
The Netherlands is boosting its ranks of customs officials. Above, a port in Rotterdam.
Belgium is weighing the need for scanners, sniffer dogs, weapons and drones to beef up post-Brexit customs surveillance.
As one British politician put it, “Nobody is suggesting that this is a desirable situation.”
With a vacancy on the United States Supreme Court, many anti-abortion activists see 
While a majority of Americans have long believed abortion should be legal in most or all cases, the vocal anti-abortion movement is working at the local level.
Separately, our reporters illustrated the difficulty of 
The device, above, has prompted lawsuits from thousands of women who claim it caused severe injuries, including perforation of the uterus and the fallopian tubes.
And Merck is the latest U.S. pharmaceutical company to 
The university said in April that it would hire independent investigators to look into whether the doctor, Richard H. Strauss, committed acts of sexual misconduct against athletes and students while employed there from the mid-1970s to the 1990s.
Dr. Strauss, above, killed himself in 2005.
Susan Unterberg, 77, above, knows firsthand the hurdles that female artists face. She’s stepping out to more openly argue on behalf of women who are artists, demonstrate the importance of women supporting women and try to inspire other philanthropists.
One recipient called the grant an “extraordinary gift,” saying, “I needed the money, but more than anything, I needed the encouragement and the support to keep making, to keep pushing.”
Have a great weekend.