
Not long ago, debates about privacy and surveillance were theoretical. What’s the harm if Amazon and
Those of us who pushed for stronger protections from surveillance have often invoked hypothetical situations
We no longer need to conjure hypotheticals. On June 29, 
Mail.ru ran applications on Facebook for years before 2015, allowing it to delve into Facebook profiles and activity from millions of users around the world. This was standard Facebook policy. Thousands of companies that built applications on the Facebook platform had access to potentially millions of users’ information. 
Mark Zuckerberg had told Congress in April that it ended this 
While Americans have been justifiably appalled that an obscure political consulting firm, Cambridge Analytica, had rich behavioral data on at least 87 million voters, we should be more concerned that companies like Mail.ru had access to the same data. 
The Russian company was founded by Yuri Milner, 
Facebook has not released the full list of thousands of companies around the world that had similar,
A review of the company’s patents indicates Facebook’s commitment to collecting and exploiting detailed personal information.
Any oppressive state seeking to monitor troublesome elements of its population —
Myths about Facebook — that it helped democratic uprisings in Tunisia and Egypt and that it has connected brave activist movements of all kinds — have kept Americans under the spell of Mr.
Facebook has no idea how much personal data it let companies have or how far it might have traveled. It might never know. And neither will we. 
We do know about Mail.ru, although we do not know how the company might have used Facebook data, or what other groups in Russia might have then acquired or used that data. That should be enough to call for stiffer regulatory penalties on Facebook. 
This week, the Information Commissioner’s Office in Britain issued
The European Union’s new General Data Protection Regulation might prevent future excesses. Brazil, Japan and South Korea are considering similar protections for its citizens.
In the United States, 
The process of holding Facebook to account will take many years. But the debate over privacy and surveillance is no longer about “what ifs.” Facebook has already made us vulnerable to abuses by hostile forces around the world. Responsible, accountable governments must do more to protect us.
Siva Vaidhyanathan is a professor of media studies at the University of Virginia and the author of “Antisocial Media: How Facebook Disconnects Us and Undermines Democracy.”