
LONDON — Last Monday Carillion, a Wolverhampton-based infrastructure and facilities management company, went into liquidation. The company has become an emblem of Britain’s public sector reforms over the last two decades, and its collapse represents a signal moment for the country.
The result of a demerger in 1999, the company became Britain’s 
Carillion’s reach across the British economy is tentacular. Now, as it falters, the consequences of the government’s reliance on companies like it are plain for all to see. All 20,000 of Carillion’s British employees stand to lose their jobs, and the economic effects could prove potentially devastating. With up to 
As the fallout from the last week’s collapse continues to reverberate, in hindsight it’s obvious that the company’s business model, which mistook the temporary construction boom at the start of the millennium for something more enduring, died in the teeth of the Great Recession. In 2009 its market capitalization was half of what it was just two years earlier, a clear sign that investment had outstripped capacity.
Its seeming revival says much about the British economy since the crisis. Though Carillion had always drawn part of its revenue from government contracts, that relationship became much more important. Since 2011, the company has received government contracts worth up to 5.7 billion pounds (almost $8 billion), 
This was part of a wider trend: In the five years following 2010, state money spent on outsourcing — contracting private companies to build and manage public services — nearly doubled, reaching 
Such a shift in the provision of public infrastructure and services has served two political objectives since the election of the coalition government in 2010: reducing public expenditure and increasing jobs in the private sector. In both respects, outsourcing seemed to offer a means to achieve the otherwise impossible.
As a proportion of gross domestic product, public spending in Britain is now lower than any other advanced economy in Europe. While falling short of the former chancellor George Osborne’s objective to reduce the state to 
There’s only one problem. While the Conservatives could point to private sector job creation, and limited deficit reduction, this all unfolded alongside the biggest decline in real wages — measured as pay after inflation — since Watt’s steam engine. Between 2007 and 2015, wages fell 10.4 percent. This year that is expected to continue, 
It’s the same story with productivity. In Britain an hour of work creates 
As workers took home less pay and productivity stagnated, Carillion, bolstered by hundreds of government contracts, continued to give its shareholders a profit. The company’s market capitalization returned to around pre-crash levels, as did its total revenue, which was £5.2 billion in both 
It is impossible to know whether the government was aware of just how bad Carillion’s real situation was. But despite multiple profit warnings and the company’s stock 
While the company wasn’t bailed out in the manner that the banks were a decade ago, the parallels are obvious. The state was propping up the private sector in the name of upholding free markets.
Far from an outlier, Carillion may be the canary in the privatization gold mine. Shares in Interserve, a comparable services and construction company that has lost 80 percent of its value over the last four years, 
All of which adds yet another layer to a continuing crisis for Britain’s social and economic model. After Brexit, last year’s surprise general election result, the 
It can’t come soon enough.