
In a humiliating last-minute move, Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain postponed a vote in Parliament on Tuesday on the terms of the country’s divorce from the European Union. We look at why Britain is so frustrated by Brexit even before Brexit has taken effect.
transcript
“We entered the European economic community as one United Kingdom and we will be leaving as one United Kingdom. As a result, if we went ahead and held the votes tomorrow, the deal would be rejected by a significant margin. We will, therefore, defer the vote scheduled for tomorrow and not proceed to divide the house at this time.” “The government has lost control of events and is in complete disarray. It’s been evident for weeks that the prime minister’s deal did not have the confidence of this house. Yet she plowed on regardless, reiterating this is the only deal available.” “People are going to be looking at this aghast. And I’ve spoken to many ‘leave’ votes in my constituency. I deeply respect and understand the reasons why they voted ‘leave’ in 2016, but many of them have changed their minds and they’re looking at this, they’re saying to me, that they want a chance to have a say on what is before them: Brexit reality, not Brexit fantasy. And that is why we need a people’s vote.” “I ask this on behalf of the many Livingston constituents of mine that have been in touch and I’m sure many people across the U.K.: What the heck is going on? This is a complete and utter clusterbùrach. Why is she more concerned with her own self-preservation, and now the party unity, than the lives and livelihood of my Livingston constituents?” “My voters, ‘leave’ voters, are sick to the back teeth of being told by ‘remainers’ — people who lost the referendum — what it was they voted for. We’ve been told we’re racist, that we’re a bit stupid, a bit too Northern and now we’re being told we didn’t know what we voted for.” “The fundamental question that members of this house have to ask themselves is whether they wish to deliver Brexit and honor the result of the referendum. If you wish to deliver — all the analysis shows — that if you wish to deliver Brexit, if you wish to honor the result of the referendum, then the deal that does that, that best protects jobs and our economy, is the deal that is on — the government has put forward.”
After taking a hard-line view of Brexit for years, Prime Minister Theresa May presented the country with a compromise deal that 
The repudiation of Mrs. May’s plan is in part 
Here’s a guide to 
Ellen Barry and Stephen Castle contributed reporting.
“Waiting for Brexit” was produced by Lynsea Garrison and Rachel Quester, with help from Jessica Cheung and Jonathan Wolfe, and edited by Paige Cowett.
“The Daily” is produced by Theo Balcomb, Annie Brown, Jessica Cheung, Lynsea Garrison, Michael Simon Johnson, Andy Mills, Neena Pathak, Rachel Quester, Ike Sriskandarajah, Clare Toeniskoetter and Alexandra Leigh Young, and edited by Larissa Anderson, Paige Cowett and Wendy Dorr. Lisa Tobin is our executive producer. Samantha Henig is our editorial director. Brad Fisher is our technical manager. Chris Wood is our sound engineer. Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly.