
BRUSSELS — Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain headed home flustered and empty-handed on Friday after a blunt exchange at a European Union summit meeting, where Mrs. May’s entreaties for help to amend a withdrawal deal that would satisfy her Parliament were rejected.
The outcome, which the British press described as a humiliation of Mrs. May, left her scrambling with no clear way forward as Britain hurtles toward its self-imposed deadline to withdraw from the European Union in less than four months.
Instead of achieving a diplomatic victory in Brussels to salvage a chaotic week that nearly toppled her from power, Mrs. May engaged in an ill-tempered spat with the president of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker. He airily dismissed the idea of more negotiations on the deal known as Brexit.
In a bracing moment of candor, Mr. Juncker called Mrs. May’s hourlong performance in Brussels before other European Union leaders “sometimes nebulous and imprecise.” Britain must be specific about what it needs, Mr. Juncker said, venting the frustration felt by European negotiators at Mrs. May’s tactics for more than two years.
For Mrs. May, the summit was another ordeal after one of the most tumultuous five days in recent British politics. On Monday she 
Now she faces twin, seemingly insurmountable obstacles: continuing to negotiate with Brussels for something she can call a new concession, while trying to allay British lawmakers’ fears of being tied forever to the European Union under a “backstop” agreement on the border between Northern Ireland, which is part of the United Kingdom, and Ireland, which is part of the European Union.
And she has to reschedule a vote in Parliament that she is widely expected to lose.
Her conundrum won little sympathy from the bloc’s leaders during the two-day summit meeting.
“When it comes to the future relationship, our British friends need to say what they want, rather than asking us what we want,” Mr. Juncker said. “And so we would like within a few weeks for our U.K. friends to set out their expectations for us, because this debate is sometimes nebulous and imprecise and I would like clarifications.”
An offended Mrs. May appeared to confront Mr. Juncker Friday morning in a testy exchange and, though video of the encounter did not provide audio, broadcasters confirmed the altercation with the help of lip readers.
Asked about it later, she said, “I had a robust discussion with Jean-Claude Juncker” who had been talking, she said, not about her but “about a general level of debate.”
Stung by the criticism, Mrs. May insisted she had been “crystal clear” about what she needed.
Some had predicted that Brussels would be a welcome relief for Mrs. May from the domestic political crisis. But as preparations accelerated on both sides of the English Channel for a chaotic exit without an agreement — which neither side wants — European officials suggested that her tactics had been wrong.
Postponing the vote in the British Parliament on the withdrawal deal that was so painfully negotiated, and then appealing to the bloc for concessions that could help win passage, had been an error, these officials said.
Brussels is unlikely to make even minor changes to help Mrs. May until after Parliament votes down the agreement, they said, noting that in the past, the bloc only moved to salvage a disaster once it had actually happened.
To make concessions beforehand might allow pro-Brexit members of Parliament to demand more.
But now, Parliament is unlikely to vote on the deal until January, and European Union leaders continued to insist that they would not agree to alter it.
“I have no mandate to organize any further negotiations,” said Donald Tusk, president of the European Council. Mr. Juncker said “we have to lower the temperature,” but Mr. Tusk repeated that “we have to exclude any further opening of the withdrawal agreement.”
Prime Minister Charles Michel of Belgium said that “very objectively, the signals that we heard yesterday are not especially reassuring about the capacity in Britain to be able to honor the engagement that was undertaken.”
If, as predicted, Parliament rejects the 585-page divorce deal, there will be a renewed rush to win over British lawmakers who are concerned about the Irish border. That would require not just reassuring words, which were readily available here Thursday and Friday, but more legally binding interpretive documents, of the kind used in the past to get around objections from parliaments of member states or regions.
Those could be drafted and approved in another emergency European Union summit meeting in late January. Then, officials hope, the British Parliament might agree to the deal on a second vote.
The danger is that, after the latest debacle in Brussels, Mrs. May could lose the first vote in Parliament by such a margin that the deal is effectively killed.
So Mrs. May said on Friday that there would be more talks with the European Union, while putting her best gloss on the formal conclusions that emerged from the meeting, which were mildly encouraging and which, she said — rather stretching the point — “have legal status.”
While Britain is scheduled to leave the European Union on March 29, mid-February seems more like the ultimate deadline. British lawmakers must pass supporting legislation and the European Parliament must ratify the deal.
Of course there are other possibilities for Brexit, which was set in motion in 2016, when 52 percent of the British electorate voted to leave the union.
The British Parliament, which currently seems to have no majority for any particular deal, but also seems to have a majority wanting to avoid a “no-deal” outcome, could try to rescind Britain’s withdrawal, or take over the Brexit process from Mrs. May’s government, an option supported by advocates of closer ties to the bloc like those enjoyed by Norway.
Or it could, despite Mrs. May’s current objections, vote for a second referendum, while asking Brussels to delay the March 29 deadline. But what precisely such a plebiscite would ask and how soon it could be arranged are open questions, and to delay March 29 would require consensus from the other 27 member states.
Planning for a no-deal exit — which officials predict would be chaotic and economically damaging — will accelerate now, Mr. Juncker said, as did Mrs. May.
A senior French official said the discussion Thursday night with Mrs. May, which included nearly an hour of questions and answers with her counterparts, was not acrimonious.
But others said that Mrs. May was often interrupted, including by Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, who asked, “But what is it that you want?”
Mrs. May’s only hope is that growing concern about a no-deal Brexit will concentrate minds among British lawmakers so that they vote through her plan, however much they dislike it.
Yet many of her lawmakers are angry about the “backstop” plans to prevent physical checks after Brexit on goods at crossing the border between Ireland and Northern Ireland. Under that plan, the whole of the United Kingdom would stay in a customs union with the European Union until a long-term arrangement can be made, while Northern Ireland would be subject to even more of Europe’s rules.
Mrs. May wants legally binding assurances that this will be a temporary situation, and Britain will not be trapped in a relationship that obliges it to obey rules it will have no role in shaping.
What she would like is known in diplomatic jargon as a “Joint Interpretive Instrument,” a legal clarification of the meaning of the deal, separate from the agreement itself.
Experts argued that Mrs. May had made another basic error by promising her own lawmakers something she had yet to secure from the European Union, and therefore gambling on the willingness of Brussels to help her.
Peter Ricketts, formerly the head of Britain’s Foreign Office, said he had awaked to the news of Mrs. May “appealing to others to help her out of dilemmas of her own making.”
“I cannot understand why she weakly undertook in the Commons to get further legal assurances from the E.U.,” he wrote on 