
The Group of 20 meeting in Buenos Aires this weekend gave finance ministers a chance to compromise over trade. They didn’t. Steven Mnuchin, the U.S. treasury secretary, dismissed concerns from the International Monetary Fund that tariff wars might hurt America through a global slowdown. Friction, Alan Rappeport of the NYT writes, is 
Not helping: 
The E.U. is sending Jean-Claude Juncker, president of the European Commission, to Washington for discussions with Mr. Trump on Wednesday. Anonymous E.U. officials 
Some anonymous White House officials 
Mike Manley, formerly head of the Jeep and Ram truck brands, 
Mr. Marchionne revived an automaker that many people thought was doomed. But the company 
So what can Mr. Manley do? Maybe sell up, the 
It’s possible that Manley will decide that the best way to deal with all these challenges is to pursue a merger with a peer — as Marchionne tried and failed to do with G.M. Marchionne’s assessment in his 2015 “Confessions of a Capital Junkie” remains correct: it is madness for automakers to each spend heavily developing near identical technologies, when sharing the burden would be more efficient.
A full year before last week’s record fine over Android smartphone deals, the search giant was quietly seeking a settlement with Margrethe Vestager, the E.U’s competition commissioner.
She 
The Silicon Valley search giant had waited at least a year too long to broach the subject of a settlement, the 50-year-old Vestager said in an interview. When a company wants to settle, it needs to “reach out immediately after” getting the E.U.’s initial complaint or statement of objections. “That didn’t happen in this case and then of course it takes the route that it has now taken,” Vestager said of the settlement talks, which haven’t been previously reported. “So no surprises.”
The 2010 Dodd-Frank law was supposed to make derivatives — the financial instruments that helped cause the 2008 crisis — easier to regulate. But Emily Flitter of the NYT reports that it’s also 
Banks don’t have to disclose to American regulators their holdings of derivatives housed in certain offshore entities. The critical variable is whether the American parent company is legally on the hook to bail out its foreign subsidiary if it gets into trouble. As long as the answer is no, the foreign entity isn’t subject to the Dodd-Frank requirements.
Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase, Citigroup, Bank of America and Morgan Stanley all appear to use the loophole — though mostly only for a fraction of their derivatives trading.
The electric car company has always spent fast. But it has a new short-term idea to deal with that. To judge by a memo reviewed by the WSJ, it’s 
The automaker’s memo, sent by a global supply manager, described the request as essential to Tesla’s continued operation and characterized it as an investment in the car company to continue the long-term growth between both players.
Tesla reportedly requested a “meaningful” amount of money, though it’s unclear from how many companies.
Was that wise? Dennis Virag, a manufacturing consultant, told the WSJ that big refunds could hurt suppliers enough to risk parts problems.
■ Atos of France will buy Syntel of Michigan, an I.T. company, for $3.4 billion. (
■ Alibaba has joined a $600 million round of investment in Megvii, a Chinese facial-recognition developer. (
■ Alongside Tencent, Alibaba is reportedly in talks to buy a $2.5 billion stake in WPP’s Chinese operations. (
■ President Trump warned Iran that threatening America carried severe “consequences.” (
■ Russia plans what it calls a “fake news” law. Critics say it targets dissent. (
■ The E.U. rejected Britain’s proposals for the finance sector after Brexit. (
■ The Chinese e-commerce company JD.com has European hopes. (
■ Facebook, having dropped its internet drones, is working on a broadband satellite. (
■ SoftBank reportedly plans a mobile digital payments service in Japan. (
■ Saudi Arabia is said to be planning two funds worth more than $18 billion to encourage foreign investment. (
■ The Federal Reserve isn’t worried about the yield curve — for the same reason as before the financial crisis. (
■ Factor investing might be ready to challenge hedge funds. (