
LONDON — Britain’s international image may have taken a beating over the past year, as the country proceeds with its stuttering 
The royal family just keeps on delivering.
At 11:01 a.m., 
The news radiated out of 
“Oyez, oyez, oyez, we’ve got a royal baby, a prince!” he bellowed, and a small knot of royalists posted across the road, drinking sparkling wine out of plastic cups, responded in kind: “Hip hip hooray! Hip hip hooray! It’s a boy, born on St. George’s Day!”
It was testament to the enduring fascination with Britain’s royal family, invigorated in recent months by 
“What this does for us as a country, the monarchy, this will push us through Brexit,” said Darren French, who had come out of a hospital ward, wearing slippers and flapping cotton pajamas, to watch the spectacle. A black cab was slowly circling the block, with a wax figure of Queen Elizabeth II seated in the back.
“A lot of countries respect our monarchy,” Mr. French added. “It makes us look solid. It makes us look staunch.”
Representatives of betting houses had been out on the sidewalk since morning with chalkboards, updating the odds on possible names for the baby. (Arthur led the male names, with two-to-one odds, and Alice led the girls’ names, five-to-one.)
The baby’s birth came a week before Catherine and William’s seventh wedding anniversary and, perhaps more important in the eyes of the English news media and public, occurred on St. George’s Day, named after England’s patron saint.
The couple’s first child, 
The new child will be fifth in line for the throne, following Prince Charles, Prince William, Prince George and Princess Charlotte, and before Prince Harry. Changes to the 
Catherine gave birth in a familiar setting: the Lindo Wing is where Princess Charlotte, Prince George and several other members of the royal family were born. 
Despite that promise, 
They seized on the town crier who had proclaimed the child’s birth from the staircase, who turned out to be a man named Tony Appleton. He had taken the train in from Chelmsford for a second time on Monday morning, after a false alarm on Saturday.
“Kate, don’t have any more, my nerves are shattered,” he said afterward.
Mr. Appleton expressed irritation that he had frequently been identified as an “unofficial” town crier, noting that he was the official town crier of his hometown, Great Baddow.
[
Among the rubberneckers were a large number of visitors from other monarchies.
Bushra Siddiqui, 42, who was there on her lunch break, said she admired the British royals for their accessibility. In Saudi Arabia, where she was born, the royal families live in total separation from the general public.
“We don’t find out when their babies are born,” she said. “We don’t know how many kids they have. We don’t know how many wives they have.”
But Yasin Ozyaprak, 21, from the Netherlands, said he liked the British royal family for the opposite reason, complaining that the Dutch royals are now so accessible that they have lost their mystique.
“I like the distance,” he said. “When the Dutch princesses go to school, they just ride bikes. If you see the king, you just go up and speak to him.”
He said many of his friends at home shared his enthusiasm.
“My mom is just, like, Diana-obsessed,” he said. “I just FaceTimed her and she started crying.”
The longest vigil had been kept by Terry Hutt, an 82-year-old carpenter and joiner dressed in a suit made with a Union Jack pattern. He had been sleeping outside the hospital on a bench for 15 days, having received contradictory reports about the Duchess of Cambridge’s due date.
He had brought a piggy bank as a gift for the baby.
Mr. Hutt, who also held a vigil outside Buckingham Palace when Charles was born in 1948, said he did not expect any more babies from this royal couple.
“Now it’s Harry’s turn,” he said.