
This country house was constructed from the ruins of the traditional 19th-century stone farmhouse that once sat on this 6.7-acre site in the rolling hills of the Piedmont region of northern Italy.
The two-story, 3,767-square-foot house, which has five bedrooms and four bathrooms, was built between 2010 and 2012 using materials from the demolished farmhouse. Features include exposed brick vaulted ceilings, tile floors, handmade doors and wood-beam ceilings, said Lesley Wisbey, an owner of Piedmont Property in Alba, 
The site, once planted with vineyards, now has a swimming pool and is landscaped with roses, lavender and geranium, Ms. Wisbey said.
The front door opens to a hallway with a living room on the left and a staircase on the right. The living room has French doors, a vaulted ceiling and a large stone wood-burning fireplace; the furniture is not included in the asking price, but is available for purchase.
Beyond the living room is an open kitchen with walnut cabinetry, marble countertops, an Ilve range and Miele appliances, a large fireplace and French doors to a covered porch. There are also a bedroom, a bathroom and a laundry room on the first floor.
The master bedroom, on the second floor, has high wood-beamed ceilings, a private terrace and an en-suite bathroom with a walk-in shower. There are three smaller bedrooms on this floor as well, one with French doors that open to a private balcony. These bedrooms share a bathroom with a walk-in shower.
The basement has a wine cellar, utility room and storage. Outside, a 40-by-20-foot swimming pool is surrounded by a flagstone deck; next to it is a small stone building with storage space, a bathroom and an outdoor fireplace.
The property, which has a gated entrance, is a short drive from the town of Canelli, where there are shops, restaurants, wine bars and other amenities, Ms. Wisbey said. Turin, the capital of the Piedmont region, which has a population of more than 880,000, is about an hour and 15 minutes away, with trails for cycling and hiking, as well as wineries and restaurants. The beaches in Savona are about an hour’s drive; the Italian lakes and the ski areas in the Alps are about two hours away. The closest international airport is Milan-Malpensa, about an hour and a half away.
The global real estate crisis of 2008 affected the housing market throughout Italy, with prices falling by 20 to 30 percent, and Piedmont followed the national trend, brokers said. But after several years of decreasing prices, Piedmont’s housing market has begun to stabilize in the past 12 to 18 months, said Eli Anne Langen, owner of the brokerage 
“In the rural areas of south Piedmont, sales growth only recovered in 2014,” said Angelika Smith-Aichbichler, a partner with 
While the Piedmont market is growing stronger, there are still “some interesting low-priced investment opportunities available,” Ms. Wisbey said. A fully renovated home on a hilltop or close to an attractive village could command up to 3,000 euros a square meter (or $332 a square foot), for example, while a similar property in a less appealing place might sell for less than 1,000 euros a square meter (or $111 a square foot), she said.
But buyers hoping to find a renovated farmhouse with bed-and-breakfast potential and a view of the Alps and vineyards for 250,000 euros (or about $300,000) are likely to be disappointed, said Richard Edwards, owner of 
Scandinavians, particularly Norwegians, are probably the largest group of foreign buyers in Piedmont at the moment, brokers said. Other European buyers include the Dutch, Swiss, Germans and Belgians.
Since Brexit, 
In recent years, however, there has been increased interest from North American buyers, said Ms. Smith-Aichbichler, who attributed it to the purchase of “desirable vineyard estates, plus a holiday property near Barolo,” by the American businessman Kyle Krause, president and chief executive of Krause Holdings, Inc. “This has had a knock-on effect, bringing in many new investors.”
Other buyers seen in smaller numbers include residents of Iceland, France, Malaysia, Australia, Nepal, Japan, Poland and Russia, brokers said.
There are generally no restrictions on foreign buyers in Italy. All home sales are legally required to be handled by a notary, brokers said, and hiring a lawyer isn’t necessary.
A notary typically charges between 1 percent for lower-priced properties and 0.12 percent for properties worth 5 million euros (or about $6 million), Ms. Smith-Aichbichler said.
Other closing costs include the real estate agent’s fee of about 3 to 5 percent and a purchase tax on the land registry value of the property. In all, closing costs usually amount to about 8 percent of the purchase price, Mr. Edwards said.
Mortgages of up to 50 percent of the property value are available to foreign buyers who can provide adequate documentation of income, Ms. Langen said.
Piedmont regional government: 
Canelli: 
Turin tourism: 
Turin city government: 
Italian; euro (1 euro = $1.19)
The annual taxes on this home are 1,400 euros, or about $1,670.
Lesley Wisbey, Piedmont Property, 011-39-333-746-4121; 