
LONDON — The Iron Lady loved teddy bears.
Newly released documents have pulled back the curtains on such lesser-known aspects of the life and times of 
The documents, mostly from 1988, were published online on Saturday by 
Here are some of the more intriguing insights from the papers:
Decades before Britain voted to leave the European Union, Mrs. Thatcher gave 
“
But while not backing an exit, a draft of another speech, made in April the same year at a Lancaster House conference on the single market, 
As the foundation wrote:
“The speech did not seem so vital at the time … But from the perspective of 2018, with Britain convulsed by Brexit, Bruges grows ever larger in significance, to a degree that could cause us to overplay the speech. MT did not expect or intend it to have quite the role some would now suppose: In no way was Bruges a manifesto for withdrawal. Indeed, she expressly and emphatically asserted the opposite, lest other elements in the speech leave any doubt on that question.”
A Thatcher Foundation spokesman told The Guardian newspaper that Mrs. Thatcher 
She was presented one teddy bear around the time she was visiting the headquarters of the supermarket chain Asda in Leeds, England, in December 1988.
During the visit, she also observed a “Christmas pudding microwave demonstration” and was shown how to cook turkeys safely, according to the local daily The Yorkshire Evening Post.
Mrs. Thatcher revealed her meat preferences and those of her husband: “I like the white meat best, but Denis always goes for the dark meat.”
As for the teddy bear, she said she would place the toy under her tree.
The files reveal that the bears were quite popular, and Mrs. Thatcher was often asked to loan them out to various museums and for events. In one letter from 10 Downing Street 
“Thank you so much for returning Humphrey. I am sure that he had a lovely time at Longleat.”
Even when requests for the bears were snubbed, the prime minister intervened. For example, Gyles Brandreth, a broadcaster, former lawmaker and the founder of 
“If you have a teddy bear you felt able to loan to The Teddy Bear Museum, you could rest assured that he would be beautifully cared for, properly acknowledged, fully insured and obviously could be returned to you at a moment’s notice.”
The prime minister’s office drafted a reply concerning the bears: “Unfortunately, they will not be able to join you as they have other commitments that month.” Mrs. Thatcher, however, overturned the refusal, and a loan was made to the museum.
Other requests were not so fortunate. A charity teddy bears’ picnic in Havant, on the south coast of England, was told the bears had “other commitments,” and an event at Covent Garden to commemorate 50 years of the British Diabetic Association received a note saying that Humphrey “will not be able to join you because he is already engaged for this date.”
Mr. Brandreth told The Guardian that Mrs. Thatcher had said collecting teddy bears was a “very sensible hobby” for a member of Parliament.
The documents also opened a window into how Mrs. Thatcher and her husband put together a guest list of 229 names for a gala at Downing Street.
Denis Thatcher personally vetted the list, 
He wrote question marks next to “those who I believe do NOT help,” the files show.
Among the latter were the former Beatle Paul McCartney, the naturalist David Attenborough and the singer Shirley Bassey.
But the composer Andrew Lloyd-Webber and the actress Judi Dench got a thumb’s up. So did the TV personality Rolf Harris, 
The archive will be open to the public starting on Monday, according to The Associated Press.
More private documents on Mrs. Thatcher, housed at the 
• 
•
•