
2. Not entirely — there’s some room for insisting on basic working conditions and environmental rules. But not too much. Consider Bangladesh: all it really has is a large labor force, with fairly low productivity. Low wages are the only way they can sell on world markets. If we insist that they follow first-world rules, we’re basically telling them to go starve.
3. It’s tricky. Subsidizing 
But the level of protectionism it would take to get those few percent back would have lots of ugly side consequences. If we want to help U.D. workers — and we do — there are better ways.
You may remember Bernie Sanders using Denmark as an example. It’s a good one: much better wages, a much stronger social safety net, a mostly unionized work force. But Denmark is as open to world trade as we are. It’s domestic policies — from taxing and spending decisions to pro-labor policies in the service sector — that make the difference. Universal health care and the right to organize matter a lot more for workers than trade policy.
However, these powers aren’t supposed to be used arbitrarily: there’s supposed to be an independent study of the issue, and the president acts on the basis of that study. What’s happening with Trump is an abuse of the process: the Commerce Department came up with an obviously bogus national security rationale for tariffs Trump wanted to impose for other reasons.
So we have a process that gives presidents some discretion, for pretty good reasons — but one that assumes that said presidents will act honestly and responsibly. It falls apart when you’re dealing with someone like Trump.
We also think that the 
So this isn’t a subject economists have been ignoring. You just want to ask what’s the best way to help workers, and tariffs are rarely the answer.
But you want to keep some perspective. Our “net international investment position” — overseas assets less liabilities — is about -45 percent of G.D.P., which isn’t that big a number, all things considered. For example, it’s less than 10 percent of our national wealth.
And the idea that this gives foreigners a lot of power over America has it backward. On the contrary, in a way it makes them our hostages: China has a lot of money tied up in America. Suppose they tried to pull it out: the worst that could happen would be a fall in the dollar, which would be good for U.S. manufacturing and inflict a capital loss on our creditors.
Lot of things worry me; our foreign debt, not so much.
I was against TPP, but not because I want a return to protectionism: the trouble with TPP was that it wasn’t about trade at all, it was mainly about intellectual property (e.g. pharma patents) and dispute settlement (giving corporations more power).
What we need is a renewed commitment to universal health care, much more investment in infrastructure, policies to help families and a return to policies that empower unions, especially in the service sector. Defining trade as the problem is just a way to duck real solutions.
In the longer run, the economy would just be less efficient: instead of concentrating on stuff we’re especially good at, we’d be doing a lot of labor-intensive stuff for ourselves. I haven’t seen a good estimate of just how much poorer, but it would surely be worse than Brexit, which typical estimates say will make Britain about 2 percent poorer.
We’re not talking the end of the world or even a major depression here. Just a big short-term mess and a longer-term drag on economic growth.
Remember, Germany, which runs the world’s biggest trade surplus, actually pays substantially higher wages than we do.
But if this turns into tit-for-tat, with Europe retaliating and Trump retaliating back, who knows?
For now, the bigger impact is on foreign relations: now nobody trusts us, and China and Russia are the big winners from that distrust.
And if you actually do look at the numbers, you immediately realize that his whole premise is wrong: we could shut down trade completely and manufacturing would still employ 
So I’m not sure what to argue with. He didn’t do his homework.