
LONDON — In a mahogany-paneled corner of the palatial Burberry flagship store on Regent Street, Christopher Bailey, the outgoing president and chief creative officer of Britain’s largest luxury brand, sat smiling at a corner table, shrouded in shadows.
It was early February, 10 days before the unveiling of Mr. Bailey’s final collection for Burberry at 
With that startling announcement, Mr. Bailey, 46, the former wunderkind of British fashion and one who had a cultlike following in the fashion world, had thrown up a plot twist no one anticipated. It’s one that may have repercussions throughout the industry as peers lobby for his job, the media speculates feverishly on what he will do next, and whether Burberry — and to a certain extent, British fashion — can maintain its place in a post-“Brexit” world.
“I keep waiting for a surreal moment or existentialist crisis,” said Mr. Bailey, dressed in jeans and a denim shirt, stirring cappuccino in a china cup with his silver spoon. “Perhaps I haven’t really engaged with the finality of it all because I am still in pragmatic mode preshow. But I really do want this. I need some balancing in my life, having worked at a thousand miles an hour for so many years.”
He paused for a moment and smiled softly, even a little sadly. “Besides,” he added, “I did have time to percolate on what it would mean to leave Burberry, long before this all went into motion.”
Certainly, the final years of Mr. Bailey’s tenure at the top were tumultuous, casting a shadow over a long and starry ascent that had begun when the affable Yorkshireman, son of a carpenter and a window-dresser for the British department store Marks & Spencer, graduated from the Royal College of Art in 1994. After a stint in New York working for Donna Karan, he moved to Milan to work for Tom Ford at Gucci, the job he had when, in 2001, he met Rose Marie Bravo, then the American chief executive of Burberry.
Ms. Bravo was tasked with rebooting the company after decades of poorly conceived licensing deals diluted both the creative and commercial powers of the brand founded in 1856 and best known for supplying trench coats to British army officers during World War I.
“The moment I met Christopher, I knew he was the right person for Burberry — it almost felt like a divine intervention,” Ms. Bravo said of Mr. Bailey, then a relative unknown.
Within weeks of that initial meeting, she hired him to replace the designer Roberto Menichetti as Burberry’s creative director.
“Burberry had a very strong history and Christopher was so passionate about it, and that of Britain too. So I said to him: ‘How far can you push the boundaries of what Burberry stands for? What does this brand have the power to be and say about British fashion?’” Ms. Bravo said.
Mr. Bailey’s answer was threefold.
First, he imbued every collection with references and nostalgic flourishes drawn from British culture, class, experience and weather: the signature Burberry trench reinvented in every conceivable cut and color, in prints and lace and velvet; Wellington boots and Fair Isle knits; Bloomsbury-style floral prints and ’60s-style leather with rock ‘n’ roll flair.
Then he enlisted a constellation of British stars for his ad campaigns and front rows: among them Kate Moss, Naomi Campbell, Cara Delevingne and Sienna Miller and up-and-coming male singers like James Bay and Tom Odell.
And finally, he fully embraced technology long before most rivals did to reach new luxury audiences, becoming the first British brand to 
As Burberry’s creative chief, working first alongside its chief executive officers Ms. Bravo and then Angela Ahrendts, Mr. Bailey came to enjoy a run as the 
“For more than a decade there was a common phrase in the industry: ‘doing a Burberry,’” said 
Though Mr. Bailey initially moved the Burberry shows to Milan to demonstrate to the fashion world that it could — and should — compete with such global names as Gucci and Versace, in 2009 he brought them home. That was the same year the brand’s many offices were consolidated into a single London headquarters, Horseferry House, the better to convey a made-in-Britain message. (The building, a glossy minimalist temple kept immaculately tidy by its staff, was designed down to the last detail by Mr. Bailey himself — including the mineral-water bottles he created for the staff cafeteria.)
“Christopher gave an unquantifiable boost to the identity of British fashion, making London Fashion Week a must-stop for buyers and press after years of being overlooked,” said Anna Wintour, editor in chief of American Vogue. “His genius was also in creating a world around Burberry where you could be any age or stage and still want a piece of it.”
In 2013, Ms. Ahrendts
Some said later that Mr. Bailey was privately reluctant to take the leap, only to be vigorously 
Either way, his arrival in the boardroom as 
Despite such buzzy initiatives as moving production to a 
“Trying to be both a C.E.O. and creative director backfired for Christopher Bailey,” said Luca Solca, head of luxury goods at Exane BNP Paribas. “Quite simply, he took on too much.” Josie Cox, the business editor at The Independent, a London newspaper, was equally blunt 
After three rocky years during which Mr. Bailey juggled both his creative and management responsibilities, Marco Gobbetti of Céline was tapped to become Burberry’s new chief executive, with 
“I played no part in it and am sad to see him go,” Mr. Gobbetti said at the time of Mr. Bailey’s decision. He called him “extraordinary” and added that he had been instrumental in Burberry’s transformation. “I have thoroughly enjoyed working with him over the past year. The legacy Christopher leaves and the exceptional talent we have at Burberry give me enormous confidence in our future,” Mr. Gobbetti said.
Yet Mr. Bailey’s departure comes at a crucial, perhaps dangerous, time for Burberry. Mr. Gobbetti has unveiled a dramatic “elevation strategy” intended to reposition the company as a super-luxe brand like Louis Vuitton or Dior (which have traditionally had higher prices and profit margins). There will be new product lines, heavy investment in revamping boutiques, and no more Burberry in department stores that lean down-market, all of which will hit the brand’s financial performance, and share price, in the short term. But who will design such exciting new products?
No one knows.
A Burberry spokesman said this week that while a search was underway, there would be no comment on any individuals until the successful candidate had been identified.
Speculation on who would get the job has included British names like Phoebe Philo (
Mr. Bailey, for his part, seemed resolved, even relieved, about moving on.
“Working at Burberry has been one of the great privileges of my life, and I hope that the next person we bring in feels as inspired and ambitious about this brand as I have,” was all Mr. Bailey would say on the matter last week. “Burberry has been like my family; it runs through my veins.”
“But I just had to make a decision,” he continued. “Burberry was clearly at the start of a new chapter. Would I, could I, commit to another five or 10 years there, and keep doing what I know in a world that is so familiar? Or do I explore another way of life, and at the same time spend some more time with my husband, Simon, and my two beautiful little girls?” (Mr. Bailey 
He chose the latter. In the short term, that means the completion of his last collection — a meditation on the passage of time, complete with archival pieces and new prints, including a reworking of the signature Burberry check with the rainbow hues of the L.G.B.T. flag — and finishing the obligations in his contract with Burberry, which runs out at the end of the year. For the long term, he doesn’t know what comes next. Friends have been quick to point out that he is a man of prodigious talent, zero financial limitations and great industry good will.
Could he follow in the footsteps of someone like Tom Ford, who stepped away from fashion for a while 
“With his interests spanning so much, from arts to fashion to music and technology, Christopher could honestly go on and do anything,” Ms. Wintour said.
“Whatever he touches will turn to gold,” Ms. Campbell added. “It isn’t just because he is a visionary. It is because unlike many people in this business, he is so decent. He treats everyone from a C.E.O. or celebrity to an intern with a basic level of kindness and respect. He only deserves the best.”
Mr. Bailey said he was firmly in “listening mode.” He was looking, he added, at opportunities inside and outside the fashion world, but also relishing the prospect of spending time at his home in Gloucestershire.
“I really don’t have any fixed plans yet,” Mr. Bailey said with a wide grin. “It might be something big and public. It could be something small and entrepreneurial. But whatever it is, I am definitely after another adventure.”