
This three-story 
The 4,844-square-foot home, which has three bedrooms and four bathrooms, was built with Tuscan-style bricks and wooden rafters, giving it a rural character. 
Up a stone stairway and under a portico, the main entrance is on the second floor. It opens to a spacious living room and dining area, with a patio beyond and a covered outdoor kitchen complete with barbecue and pizza oven. Trees and plants shade the area, which is used for al fresco dining.
The second floor also has two bedrooms and a bathroom. Another bathroom was designed around a circular bulkhead space between the second and third floors. 
The master bedroom is on the third floor, with an en suite bathroom and a balcony and large terrace offering sea and hill views.
A living room on the ground floor opens to a large porch; next to it is a dining room and indoor kitchen with stainless steel appliances. The ground floor also has a bathroom, two dressing rooms, a laundry room, ample storage space and a garage. 
Floors are travertine marble throughout, and the made-to-measure furniture is included in the asking price. High-tech amenities include central air-conditioning and heating, external video surveillance, motion-detecting sensors, a garden irrigation system and an armored vault. 
The guesthouse has a bedroom, small kitchen, sitting room with fireplace, bathroom and patio. 
The villa is in the province of Chieti, within walking distance of the small town of Santa Maria Imbaro, which has a variety of shops. The nearest beach is five miles away, in Fossacesia, on the Trabocchi Coast. The region has many restaurants, and its coastal towns are “bustling with night life,” said Tracey Nicholas, the owner of Abruzzo Reality, which has the listing. Cycling is popular and a coastal cycling track is under construction, she said.
The closest international airport is about 45 minutes away, in Pescara, and Fiumicino Airport, in Rome, is about two hours and 45 minutes away.
In the past decade, home prices in Abruzzo — which includes the provinces of Chieti, Pescara, Teramo and L’Aquila — have dropped around 30 to 40 percent, although they now seem to have bottomed out, Ms. Nicholas said: “We think they could start to rise again soon. Last year was our best year in 10 years, and this year is following a similar trend.”
While housing sales in the coastal and densely populated areas of Abruzzo, like Pescara and its neighboring towns, may be picking up, there are still bargains to be found in the interior mountain and rural villages, said Giovanni Paravia, who handles foreign customer service for TopRE Abruzzo Mare e Monti, an agency in Spoltore. 
“The small villages have lost attractiveness to the locals that prefer, if possible, to live closer to their job location,” he said, “hence the prices for houses in the internal areas are falling.” 
That is good news for retirees seeking the charm and slow pace of an Italian village with access to skiing and beautiful beaches, said Lorna Richardson, the marketing director of Properties Around Italy, a London-based marketing portal for Italian real estate agents. 
“For middle-aged and older persons, it is heaven,” she said. “It is the ideal place to purchase a holiday home and totally, completely chill.”
Abruzzo has villas, apartments, country houses and ruins — and home prices run the gamut.
Unlike Tuscany, Umbria and the Italian lake district, Abruzzo is not well known in the international market, said Keith Purdie, the director of Abruzzo Property Italy, a London- and Pescara-based real estate agency. 
About half the foreigners who buy in Abruzzo are from the United Kingdom and Ireland, brokers said, although there have been fewer British buyers since the 2016 
American buyers, who thinned out after the global real estate crisis of 2008, often “have previous history with Abruzzo,” Mr. Purdie said. “Their relations were born in the area and have emigrated, so they are trying to reconnect.” 
There are no restrictions on most foreigners buying real estate in Italy, although their home countries must have reciprocal buying agreements with Italy, brokers said.
It is not necessary to hire a local lawyer, which could cost as much as 2,000 euros (about $2,300), brokers said, as home sales are handled by notaries, lawyers who are trained to handle title and other matters.
On average, foreign buyers should budget 10 percent on top of the sale price to cover taxes and fees for the notary and the real estate agent, Ms. Nicholas said.
But a buyer seeking a primary residence would have a reduced tax rate and should budget 5 to 6 percent, Mr. Paravia said. A permanent move to Italy, however, entails an arduous immigration process, Ms. Richardson noted.
While mortgages from Italian banks are available to foreign buyers, getting one can be time-consuming and difficult, and is generally not recommended, brokers said.
Abruzzo regional government: 
Abruzzo regional tourism: 
Italian tourism: 
 Chieti province: 
Italian; euro (1 euro = $1.17)
Annual taxes on this villa are 600 euros (about $700) if it is a primary residence, Ms. Nicholas said, and 2,600 euros (about $3,035) if it is a secondary residence.
Tracey Nicholas, Abruzzo Reality, 011-39-349-275-3034; 
For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, 