
If it seems as though each time you log into Netflix there are a dozen new original series on offer, it might be because that’s essentially what’s happening. 
In order to help you prioritize your queue, we’ll periodically sift through the latest original programming on Netflix and let you know which shows we think are worth watching. This inaugural roundup features crime thrillers, teen comedies, food shows and one of the craziest documentary series in recent memory.
“Babylon Berlin” has everything: Communists, fascists and flappers! Pornographers, cops and gangsters! Set during the Weimar Republic and created with the filmmaker Tom Tykwer (“Run Lola Run”), this hit German crime drama combines the decadence of “
In the early 1980s, followers of the Indian guru Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh built a community for themselves on a 63,000-acre swathe of Oregon ranchland. Tensions quickly flared between the commune, called Rajneeshpuram, and its new neighbor, the tiny city of Antelope. From one angle, the conflict appeared to pit xenophobic yokels against a vulnerable religious minority; from another, it appeared that a sex cult was terrorizing a quiet community of working-class retirees. And that was 
After appearing in one of last year’s best Netflix original films, “Mudbound,” Carey Mulligan returns to the streaming service with another stirring performance. “Collateral” casts her as Kip Glaspie, an ambitious detective inspector whose investigation into the murder of a pizza delivery man leads her to a far more complicated mystery. With lots of incisive commentary on immigration in post-Brexit Britain and a top-notch supporting cast that includes Jeany Spark, John Simm, Billie Piper and Nicola Walker, this mini-series isn’t just for thriller addicts. Bonus: You can — and will probably want to — watch the entire four-episode season in an afternoon.
If you’re a fan of Anthony Bourdain’s globe-trotting food-adventure shows, add this series to your queue. With episodes organized around dishes rather than destinations, “Ugly Delicious” sends David Chang, the chef and Momofuku restaurateur, to culinary capitals from Los Angeles to Copenhagen to Tokyo in order for him to sample the best incarnations of everyday meals like pizza and barbecue. Accompanying Chang is a boisterous, rotating cast of pals including Jimmy Kimmel and the “
Television can never get enough baking competitions, most of which follow the same basic recipe: Talented pastry chefs + high-concept creations + expert judges = sculptural desserts that are a feast for the eyes. “Nailed It!” swaps out the professional contestants in favor of hapless novices who try their damnedest to replicate elaborate wedding cakes and other decorative sweets. The result is Food Network meets 
In this crime drama from Veena Sud, the creator of “The Killing,” a black teenager is struck by a car while riding his bike and is left for dead. But “Seven Seconds” isn’t a whodunit. We know from the beginning that the hit-and-run collision is an accident, that a white police officer named Peter Jablonski (Beau Knapp) is the culprit and that his colleagues help him cover it up. The question is: Will the burned-out prosecutor assigned to the case (Clare-Hope Ashitey) and her detective partner (Michael Mosley) figure out what happened? And if they do, will a jury punish four cops for what they did to a black teen? 
British TV may be best known for Monty Python and costume dramas, but it is also home to some of the most daring teen programming in the English-speaking world. (See: “
For a lighter teen comedy, try this charming show about outcasts living in the aptly named town of Boring, Ore., in the mid-1990s. Our heroes are the nerdy A.V. clique and their slightly older, slightly cooler peers in the drama club — two warring factions that unite to make an absolutely ridiculous movie. Odd-couple romances, betrayals, family conflicts, journeys of self-discovery and montages set to period-appropriate songs ensue, so it’s no wonder that “Everything Sucks!” has earned comparisons to “