
And what my freedom gave me 
With these poems, Sleigh travels from battlefields ranging in location from Baghdad to Brooklyn’s projects, interrogating the increasingly shaky notion of truth and the extent to which the work of artists (Piero della Francesca, Jimi Hendrix) might offer some redemption. “Autobiography,” quoted above, was partly inspired by Raymond Chandler’s 1940 detective novel “Farewell, My Lovely.” 
Other words for Charlotte? Musical. Thoughtful. Always catching him out with her sidelong consciousness, her way of listening to the sides of what you say and responding to what you didn’t know you were saying, or to what you were trying but failing to say. Her complete lack of self-knowledge. Her laughably sincere university dissertation about the lyrics of Gilbert O’Sullivan: 
In a fragmented, post-Brexit England, four not-exactly-close people — plus the vision of a disembodied head one of them has been lately seeing — convene in Cornwall on Christmas Day. There’s a miserly host, her activist sister, her failed nature-writer son and a complete stranger hired to impersonate an ex, all of whom have their own read on faultlines past and present, personal and political. 
Week after week, reading the women’s stories on the bus ride home, they began to seem like one big story, like the same story told over and over. Someone is always being beaten, someone is always in pain. Someone is always being treated like a slave. A thing.
In the wake of the suicide of a close friend — a former teacher and lifelong confidante — Nunez’s narrator wrestles with her grief and muses on both the creative life and the more banal matters that can either impede or inspire it. Then she becomes the reluctant inheritor of the friend’s very large dog, with whom she forges a new bond. 
The drawing looked like what a medieval person might have made of the solar system. Concentric circles, dotted lines, scribbled labels. In one corner there was a dark patch where someone had written something and then blacked it out. Across the top there was an 845 phone number in faded pencil. ‘What could this possibly be?’ she said. It was the happiest I’d heard her sound in weeks.
A young Brooklyn couple’s respite from city life — as live-in caretakers of a historic house museum upstate — turns fraught when one of them starts having trouble sleeping and then goes missing. The answer, it seems, might lie with the museum’s namesake, Edmund Wright, a 19th-century thinker with a taste for the occult. 
He didn’t listen when picture books were read to him, and the sight of kids his age never made him want to talk or play with them. Pulling their hair to make them cry was all the interaction he could manage. Yet at the sight of a switch he immediately went to push it, his eyes growing brighter.
Following an unnamed catastrophe, a deeply isolationist Japan is without cars, free speech, wild animals or any number of nutrient-dense foods. It is within this depleted, self-consciously retro environment that Yoshiro is anxiously raising his great-grandson, Mumei, a wise and sensitive boy whom he’s doomed to outlive. 
And Howard, they say, listen, sometimes in the course of your duties you will have a line of coke laid out before you and in the course of your duties you’ll just have to put your head down there and suck it up. It’s part of the ride, okay Howard? Yeah, I say, part of the ride, and inside of six months I’m the biggest coke-head, the biggest dealer, and the crookedest cop in Northern California. 
Johnson’s final story collection is filled with forlorn figures staring down their own mortality. In “The Starlight on Idaho,” quoted above, an addict writes soul-baring letters from rehab to everyone from Pope John Paul to the fifth-grade crush who turned out to be his greatest love. 
There was always at least one person in his predicament in the refuge: he would go from table to table, he would listen to the discussions for a while, joining the conversation, and would eventually propose joining the group the next morning, despite knowing that nobody was keen to tie a stranger to his rope. 
For Pietro’s parents, and his moody father, in particular, mountains offer the chance to feel free and fully alive. At their summer cabin in the Italian Alps, the young boy meets another, a fearless cowherd named Bruno, with whom his life becomes inextricably linked. 
He was only a human — what else could I expect, realistically? He wanted to pretend he was somehow better than he knew he was; he wasn’t ready to throw himself into sin. Humans find it easier to just lie and lie to themselves. 
Since before she was even born, Ada has been in possession of — or, rather, possessed by —multiple selves. There’s something of the godly about this troubled Nigerian girl, who grows up and moves to the States for college, where the voices within her grow ever louder. 
About the artist: Celeste Dupuy-Spencer was born in Brooklyn and studied at Bard College. Her paintings and drawings — gritty, probing depictions of contemporary American life — were shown in last year’s Whitney Biennial. After stints in New York City and New Orleans, where Dupuy-Spencer took a two-year break from the art world and worked at a rehab center, she moved to Los Angeles in 2015. She is represented by L.A.’s Nino Mier Gallery, which will mount a solo exhibition of her work this September.