
[
Hello, listeners, from the tail end of a vacation spent mostly, blissfully at the beach. But the music never stops! May I suggest, for your next morning jog on Fire Island, John Adams’s dew-fresh early experiment in choral luminousness, “Harmonium.”
Our temporarily-European contingent remained busy. 
In other news, 
Last Friday, I attended this season’s final concert by 
For me, it was easy to imagine a cadre of classical music’s past radicals — including Hans Werner Henze and Leroy Jenkins (listen above!) — nodding in approval at the evening’s concept. That lineage was particularly apparent during the concert’s final piece, a kinetic version of the composer and pianist Vijay Iyer’s James Brown-inspired work for strings, “
The final set of the composer and performer Annie Gosfield’s residency at the Stone was also indebted to the legacy of pop styles, right down to its title: “21st Century Dance Crazes.” Given Ms. Gosfield’s interest in dizzying glissandos, droning electronics and eerie near-unison effects, the headline was a bit tongue-in-cheek. (Nobody was confused about whether these vibrant, unusual works were pop-chart fodder.) But neither was the concert’s conceit insincere. The 6/8 pulse of “Rattling Beeps and Serging Sweeps” — with Roger Kleier on guitar and Billy Martin on drums — made good on the promise of danceable groove. An earlier performance of the piece from the 2015 Ecstatic Music Festival — along with other pieces in Ms. Gosfield’s series — can be heard on 
And here is Mr. Li in 2015, in the preliminary rounds of the International Chopin Competition. Listen to his dazzling account of Chopin’s Étude in C-sharp Minor (Op. 10, No. 4), starting at 7:32. The tempo is almost defiantly fast. Yet every note comes through with clarity and ping. 
The main theme of Mozart’s Violin Sonata in B-flat (K. 378) is conversational and charming, like a well-rehearsed anecdote performed for effect. It can easily come across as glib: the contour formulaic, the flourishes more calculated than graceful. But at the Kaplan Penthouse on Wednesday, Daniel Lozakovich seized upon a detail that made all the difference. Punctuating the string of legato scales and curlicues are staccato eighths — notes that are clearly articulated and separated from their neighbors — and he dug into each of these with bite and more than a touch of roughness. I liked how these notes, each time they recurred, seemed to insist on their individuality. They also heightened the competition between piano and violin, since both instruments trade the same phrase. George Li rendered those eighths just as crisply, but there was a more worldly polish to them. Mr. Lozakovich’s playing suggested a youthful impetuousness that suited the music and the situation — he’s 17, after all. 
For most of Mozart’s String Quintet in G Minor (K. 516) the hierarchy among the violas is clear. The first viola gets all the melodies — enough, anyway, to put it on an equal footing with the first violin. The second viola does what violas normally do in music of the Classical period, filling out harmonies and juicing up the texture. But in the Adagio, it gets to upstage its neighbor right at the somber plot twist in the music. The violist Nokuthula Ngwenyama played this tiny, creepy solo to shattering effect at Alice Tully Hall on Monday during her guest appearance with the Emerson String Quartet. 
Mozart begins this slow movement with a peaceful melody over unhurried, shifting chords. Seemingly out of nowhere, the music darkens to minor, driven by an anxious pulse (at 19:58 in the video below, of a much younger Emerson Quartet with the violist Kim Kashkashian). 
Then the second viola muscles in like an unwelcome memory with a coldly insistent motif. It disappears almost as soon as you’ve noticed it — in fact, the first violin seems determined to put it firmly in the past, veering into a syrupy little dance. But Ms. Ngwenyama’s intervention was enough to cast a pall over the rest of the movement, so that the moments of sweetness now smacked of desperation and denial. 