
The pact came at a steep price for her conservative party, which gave up the Finance Ministry to the Social Democrats, a junior partner whose rank-and-file members could still veto the deal.
The pact leaves the far-right Alternative for Germany as the 
_____
Officials in the South are struggling to accommodate the North’s Olympic delegation 
(Above, protesters burning the North’s flag as its delegation arrived by ferry.)
Separately, it remains unclear 
_____
transcript
President Trump’s dream of a military parade in Washington D.C. is being put on hold, for now. On Twitter, Trump blamed local officials for inflating the estimated cost — $90 million by some accounts. His inspiration for the parade? This. France’s annual Bastille Day festivities commemorate a turning point in the French Revolution more than 200 years ago. The Pentagon says it’s exploring options for the president. But military parades also come loaded with history. Yes, they can be celebrations, but they’re also used by dictators to strike fear into civilians. The U.S. has used parades to celebrate military achievements in the past. In 1946, soon after World War II ended, a victory parade was held on Fifth Avenue in New York. America celebrated again in Washington in 1991 after claiming victory in the first Gulf War. Both parades featured troops and tanks. But they were one-offs designed to celebrate, not intimidate. In other parts of the world, though, that’s not always the case. North Korea regularly parades new ballistic missiles and goose-stepping soldiers around its capital. In theory, it’s to celebrate various milestones. But in a police state where applause is essentially mandatory, the effect is also to instill fear, both at home and abroad. China, too, likes to flex its military muscle, with highly synchronized troop formations marching beside columns of tanks. At this event in 2017, President Xi Jingping is in uniform among thousands of troops. It was to celebrate 90 years since the People’s Liberation Army was created. But it was also political theater. At the time, Xi was trying to solidify his leadership for another term. Russia’s annual Victory Day parade commemorates the defeat of the Nazis, but it also highlights its global ambitions. In 2017, for the first time, air defense missile systems were painted in the white camouflage colors of the Arctic, emphasizing the country’s expanding reach into oil-rich regions. Who knows what a U.S. parade will look like — if it happens. The White House says it wants to thank America’s troops. But a president showcasing his military might without a current war victory to celebrate risks sending the wrong message.
Separately, the Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi 
Mr. Trump, in his first comments about the stock market plunge, said it was an 
_____
(Above, commanders of the Manbij Military Council; U.S. Special Forces are in the background.)
Separately, U.S. aircraft 
_____
New DNA tests on Britain’s oldest complete skeleton, dating back about 10,000 years, 
Fair skin pigmentation — long considered a defining feature in Europe — goes back less than 6,000 years, scientists say.
“I knew they weren’t the same as the biscuits from Champagne, but they were satisfying by every measure, good cookies on their own merits.” (
Pyeongchang and Pyongyang: The South Korean host of the Winter Olympics and the North Korean capital have confusingly similar names.
There does not seem to be any significance in the shared syllable, which is derived from the same Chinese root character meaning “to pacify” or “to be level or flat.” Pyongyang means “peaceful land” or “flat land,” and Pyeongchang means “peaceful flourishing” or “peaceful prosperity.”
In the South, conservatives have criticized the government of President Moon Jae-in for welcoming the North’s participation and 
Liberals and the Moon administration countered that the event should be called 
The host town originally spelled its name “Pyongchang” in English, but added a letter in 2000 and capitalized the C to become PyeongChang to distinguish itself from the North’s capital, 
But confusion persisted despite the rebranding. In 2014, a Kenyan man trying to attend a United Nations conference in Pyeongchang mistakenly 