
The group has lost all but 1 percent of the territory it held in Iraq and Syria. Now, American-backed forces, above, are 
It has taken more than four years, over 29,000 airstrikes and thousands of soldiers’ lives for the coalition to get to this point.
But the group remains a potent threat: It still has thousands of fighters worldwide and a vast online reach.
_____
President Rodrigo Duterte 
It was a bold statement for the leader of a country that has seen many coups and attempted coups.
Mr. Duterte, who has already jailed one Senate critic, had ordered Mr. Trillanes, above, arrested last week.
The country’s Supreme Court denied the senator’s petition to quash the arrest command, but the armed forces and the police say they will act only on a warrant from a court.
_____
India’s Supreme Court gave forestry officials 
The legal process, necessary since tigers are endangered, played out like a murder trial.
At the half-hour hearing, wildlife advocates argued the tigress killed only in self-defense when people encroached on her space. The government countered that she appeared to have acquired a taste for human flesh — and that there were no other suspects.
The hunt could begin this week.
_____
The Herald Sun’s Mark Knight, a household name in Australia, added to his reputation for provocation with a caricature of Serena Williams stomping her racket at the heated U.S. Open women’s final.
He told our Australia bureau chief the cartoon was about her behavior, but other cartoonists and many high-profile observers, including J.K. Rowling, have denounced the drawing as both sexist and racist. Some say the cartoon is 
And our critic at large, Wesley Morris, explores 
_____
Japan’s space agency, JAXA, is planning to launch a cargo rocket on Friday to carry supplies, spare parts and experiments (including one related to 
Scores of such missions have kept the space station stocked since Nov. 2, 2000, when astronauts first arrived. Never unstaffed, it’s been up there so long that most people forget about it.
But your own eyes can remind you. The I.S.S. is easily spotted in the night sky (light pollution permitting). 
Back to logistics. As long as people are living in space, they have to drink and eat — about 1.8 pounds of food a day. And while the station recycles water, it’s not a perfect system, so replacement water has to be shipped up too.
Astronauts produce garbage as well. So the cargo ship, at the end of its stay at the space station, will be packed with all manner of refuse for a trip to the incinerator. The ship, along with its contents, will immolate on re-entry to Earth’s atmosphere.