
The testy back-and-forth with the Democratic congressional leaders, Representative Nancy Pelosi and Senator Chuck Schumer, raised fresh concerns that the two sides might not reach an agreement on spending bills by a Dec. 21 deadline.
Mr. Trump wants 
The meeting was the first test of 
While the two sides have agreed to a 90-day trade truce, administration officials want to keep up a sustained campaign of pressure to ensure that Beijing lives up to the commitments that President Trump and President Xi Jinping of China agreed to this month. Above, in Beijing.
Stock markets 
Many points of friction remain. 
Adding to tensions, 
Warming air and ocean temperatures are pushing the region into “uncharted territory,” increasingly affecting the continental U.S., according to a new government assessment.
The warmer Arctic air may be connected to extreme weather events far away, including last 
Our climate team examines the report’s findings.
Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, above, the majority leader, called the effort “the most significant, long-term contribution we are making to the country.”
The nominees are mostly young white men. And some have serious baggage: Six nominees received a rating of unqualified from the American Bar Association, and others made politically or racially insensitive remarks that resurfaced during their confirmation hearings.
After postponing a crucial vote in Parliament, she set out on 
But European leaders expressed resistance to further negotiations. “There is no room whatsoever for renegotiation,” said the president of the European Commission.
A mishap at one stop, a meeting with Angela Merkel at the German chancellor’s office in Berlin, above, seemed to serve as a metaphor for Mrs. May’s troubles: 
British officials said Parliament would have a chance to vote on the deal by Jan. 21. But opposition lawmakers have expressed skepticism, and most people in the country have no idea what could happen next.
Turmoil in the E.U. is now business as usual, 
One House Republican succinctly expressed the growing distrust of the search giant, asking, “Are American technology companies instruments of freedom or instruments of control?” Lawmakers also raised concerns about Google’s privacy practices and location tracking.
Google employees used the occasion to question the company’s harassment and discrimination policies. And more than 50 human rights organizations signed a letter demanding that it stop working on a censored version of its search engine for China, called Project Dragonfly.
Supporters of strict immigration limits say closing the border could result in higher wages that would motivate chronically unemployed Americans to get back to work.
But a strong economy has driven down unemployment, and many employers — particularly those offering blue-collar jobs in farming, construction and child care — say there are few alternatives to hiring workers without legal documents. Above, farming in California’s Central Valley.
Ending illegal immigration could mean that companies would close, American workers would lose their jobs and the economy would contract, experts told us. One economist said: “This would be the worst time to lose them. 
As opioid deaths have soared in recent years, police departments and strangers with cameras have been posting uncensored videos of drug users passing out.
Life is never the same for the people whose bleakest, most humiliating moments now live on the internet forever. 
Experts say the videos are doing little more than scapegoating drug users. But for some, the public humiliation was a new way to hit bottom and move forward with treatment.
Sheet-pan chicken. Baked macaroni and cheese. Beef and broccoli. Easy and comforting describe the five dishes NYT Cooking readers clicked most often in the last year. Above, honey vinegar chicken thighs.
Check out 
Pet owners who are curious about what goes on when they’re away can choose from 
Our home-improvement columnist put a few of the devices through their paces, and checked in with a tech expert to determine whether they posed a hacking risk.
Have a companionable evening.