
PARIS — October is the month when London and Paris go head-to-head, vying with each other to attract collectors to their prestigious contemporary art fairs.
In recent years, London has had the edge, at least in terms of hype. The 
But 
“I don’t like the idea of profiting from others’ misfortunes,” said Jennifer Flay, FIAC’s director since 2010, at a preview on Wednesday. “We’ve been trying to redress perceptions of the French art scene for years,” she added. “It’s taken a while to get things to become more competitive and international.”
President Emmanuel Macron of France seems to scent an opening. The president was scheduled to give a cocktail reception at the Élysée Palace on Friday “in honor of artists and creation” on the occasion of FIAC 2018 including fair exhibitors. No French president has hosted such an event since 1985, according to Ms. Flay.
The 45th edition of FIAC featured 195 galleries from 27 countries. The five-day fair, held in the majestic setting of the Grand Palais, combines contemporary and modern art under one soaring steel-and-glass roof, and attracts about 75,000 visitors, according to the organizers. The Frieze and Frieze Masters fairs, which separate contemporary and modern, each attract 60,000.
Paris is certainly being perceived again as a place to do business by international art dealers. The London and Hong Kong-based gallerist Ben Brown of 
“It feels good here in Paris,” said Mr. Brown, who was offering an array of classic blue-chip works from the 1960s by Lucio Fontana and Yves Klein. “We’re in for a rough time in England.”
Sales at FIAC have a reputation for taking longer than at Frieze, but despite the general air of uncertainty, collectors were making decisions at the preview. By lunchtime, Gagosian had sold more than 10 of the spray-painted works on paper that the Berlin-based artist 
Ms. Grosse’s centerpiece was the monumental “Ingres Wood,” a sumptuously pigmented installation of pine trunks on fabric using a recently felled tree planted in Rome by the 19th-century French painter Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres. It was priced at €550,000.
Notable among FIAC’s confirmed early sales was the $250,000 paid at the booth of the Los Angeles dealer David Kordansky for the 2018 circular cast polyester sculpture “Untitled (Parabolic Lens)” by Fred Eversley. Mr. Eversley is a former NASA-trained engineer who is included in the current Brooklyn Museum edition of the influential exhibition 
When it comes to fair venues, FIAC wins hands down over Frieze. The Grand Palais is one of the world’s most spectacular settings for any cultural event. But this signature building will close for renovation soon after the 2020 edition, and will then be used as a venue for the 2024 Paris Olympics. During the renovation period, FIAC will occupy a temporary structure on the Champ de Mars, near the Eiffel Tower, according to Ms. Flay.
Could that move compromise any shift of gravity toward Paris? Possibly. But “FIAC Week,” like “Frieze Week,” is about a lot more than one art fair.
Serious-minded satellite events are another important draw for collectors. London has the 
Paris Internationale is a pop-up event organized by smaller contemporary galleries seeking to keep costs low. This year’s fair was held in a vacant 19th-century residential building overlooking Parc Monceau in northwest Paris. Forty-two dealers and eight nonprofit ventures squeezed into its rambling domestic spaces.
“This is the best of the 10 things I’ve seen since the end of August,” the globe-trotting Belgian collector Alain Servais said at the crowded Tuesday preview. “Dealers are taking risks by bringing artists that have an institutional following, but not a commercial following.”
The reclusive Belgian conceptual artist Jef Geys, for example, who represented Belgium at the 2009 Venice Biennale and who died in February, has an auction high of just $13,125, according to the Artnet price database. At Paris Internationale, Galerie Max Mayer, based in Düsseldorf, Germany, presented Geys’s hauntingly ambiguous black lacquer sculpture, “Schildwachten (Darth Vader).” Dating from the early 1990s, it was priced at €55,000.
At the other end of the price spectrum, on view in a bathroom, 650mAh, a nonprofit based in Hove, England, was showing works by Hendrickje Schimmel, a Dutch contemporary artist who works in London. Ms. Schimmel makes pieces that “exist somewhere between sculpture and product,” questioning the preconceptions of the fashion industry. Unwearable shoe sculptures found no early takers, but an altered found cotton shirt sold for €300.
Meanwhile, around the corner at Asia Now, in another chic residential setting, visitors were putting on headsets to experience the 2018 virtual reality piece 
Also on display were lyrical collages incorporating vintage photographs by the New York-based Filipino artist Pinky Urmaza. Eight of these were presented by the Vinyl on Vinyl Gallery of the Philippines. Priced at €650 to €790, they quickly sold out.
The sense that there’s plenty happening in the Paris art scene was further reinforced on Thursday with almost 130 art and design dealerships exhibiting at FIAC Week’s annual “Gallery Night.” 
“We wanted to have a second gallery in Europe, and we do have a lot of clients in this region,” said Robbie Fitzpatrick, a co-founder of the dealership, which was also exhibiting in the first-floor younger galleries section of FIAC. “Paris is a global hub.”
Once Britain, and London, formally leave the European Union next March, Paris looks likely to become an increasingly compelling destination in the art world. It certainly will if Mr. Macron has anything to do with it.