
An archbishop who had accused the pope of covering up sexual abuse allegations against other clerics 
By Sunday night, the pope’s allies 
The statement comes on the heels of new questions of 
_____
Germany’s painful history has become highly personal in a sleepy village where neighbors are fighting over what to do with 
The swastika and its inscription are clear: “Everything for the Fatherland — Adolf Hitler.”
Jewish organizations have demanded it be taken down. The local church council banned it from ringing. But many villagers want to keep the bell, arguing it is a monument of history.
_____
They said the outreach was part of an effort to gauge the possibility of gaining cooperation from roughly a half dozen of Russia’s richest men, nearly all of whom depend on President Vladimir Putin to maintain their wealth.
The officials spoke because they said some details of the effort had been fueling President Trump’s attempts to discredit the investigation into whether his campaign coordinated with Russia.
Separately, more information about Maria Butina, the woman accused of being a covert Russian agent, is coming to light. Her tangled web of U.S. connections includes 
_____
Barcelona has become a hub for manteros, mostly migrants from Africa who 
But the migrants face few options. Once they arrive in Europe, finding jobs without required papers is nearly impossible — especially in countries with high unemployment like Spain.
The manteros represent a continuing quandary for the European authorities: It’s one thing to allow migrants in, but what do you do with them once they’ve arrived?
• 
• 
“Hacking” is a pervasive worry these days. We wondered: Where does the word come from?
Etymologists say “hack” appeared in English around 1200, meaning “to cut with heavy blows in an irregular or random fashion.”
The current usage began at
It was also used to mean pranks at M.I.T., which 
But the use of “hacking” to mean messing around with technology is the one that spread. And the activity predates the term.
In 1903, the Italian radio pioneer Guglielmo Marconi (pictured above in 1901) was preparing to demonstrate how 
But before the demonstration could begin, the receiver began to tap out a message.
“Rats, rats, rats,” it said. Then, insultingly, “There was a young fellow of Italy, who diddled the public quite prettily.”
The culprit: Nevil Maskelyne, a (clearly inventive) British music hall magician, who claimed he wanted to demonstrate the new technology’s security flaws.