
CAIRO — The last time I watched a football match in its entirety was on June 12, 1990. Egypt was playing the Netherlands in the World Cup in Italy. I was 13 and watched the game on a small living-room television screen in Cairo, surrounded by my older cousins and their friends. We were a group of 20 Egyptians and one Dutch-Egyptian, whose loyalties were severely divided. It was Egypt’s first appearance in a World Cup in 56 years.
We’re a country of more than 95 million people, and like much of the continent, football is our national sport. Judging from the streets on any day there is an important league match, a sizable majority of Egyptians are fans — many of them divided between the country’s two most popular teams, Ahly and Zamalek, but united around the national team.
I grew up in Cairo, down the street from the headquarters of the Ahly team, and football was an almost inescapable element of daily life. It was always on the radio, on TV and in conversation around me. You were invariably asked about your affiliation, and for much of the nearly 30 years of President Hosni Mubarak’s rule, it was thought that football could contain political dissent, at least at home. Mr. Mubarak spent heavily on the national team, propping up its profile and raising the stakes of its successes — so much so that a longstanding rivalry with Algeria’s team devolved into rioting in 2009, and required the intervention of diplomats.
Somehow I never caught football fever and neither did my brother. This might have been the result of a British education (which favors rugby) or the combined effect of our football-fanatic father’s absence (he lived abroad) and our mother’s blanket noninterest in sports. But Egypt’s qualification for the World Cup this year would have been an event to celebrate with or without Mohamed Salah, the 25-year-old player who led Liverpool to the Champions League final with his record-setting 32 goals this season. His inclusion in the national squad, the Pharaohs, has made converts of us all.
With Egypt now playing in the World Cup, 28 years after the last time, billboards and posters celebrating the Pharaohs tower over many main streets of Cairo. Salah’s name and face are plastered on T-shirts, of course, but also on shop doors and supermarket fliers, and on the cash register of our local dry cleaner. Although Salah sat out Egypt’s first match on Friday because of an injury and the game ended in a 0-1 loss to Uruguay, fans still honked horns in the streets and waved the Egyptian flag out of car windows in joy.
It was through my sports-agnostic brother that I was introduced to Salah earlier this year, when I overheard him speaking to a friend with excitement (perhaps as a Muslim Londoner) about 
As a non-football-fan who has watched even more committed non-fans become passionate supporters, it is hard not to think of the excitement around Salah in symbolic political terms. First, for what he represents on the opposite side of the conservative populist current that has swept Europe and the United States, during this moment of Western anti-immigration rhetoric, Brexit and bans on Muslims. Salah is an underdog — an Egyptian, a Muslim, an immigrant — but with so many people rallying around and rooting for him, his miraculous talent is dispelling prejudice.
As an Egyptian, I find it hard not to think of Salah also against the backdrop of the 2011 revolution. Although the feelings aren’t quite comparable, the last time I felt myself leap inside, wanting to take to the streets with an Egyptian flag — as Salah inspires today — was in those early days of the uprising and through the first election the following year. Since then, though, the disappointments have been many and they have become extreme. There is a feeling of having lost ground as citizens — of no longer having any sway on the direction the country may take, as we felt we did back then.
Salah was born to a modest, working-class family in a rural village 80 miles from Cairo; the place didn’t have a proper medical center or ambulance unit until Salah reportedly donated money for their establishment. Salah, as a hero and symbol, doesn’t bring back what we lost when the hopes of the revolution shattered, but he offers an antidote to the political battering the country has taken, and he suggests a sense of possibility even to young Egyptians from backgrounds like his. Football players have the status of pop stars in Egypt, and Salah’s is the ultimate success story — not just a story of fame and riches. It is widely thought that if he ran for political office, he might be elected.
Perhaps that’s why his image is sometimes appropriated by others. A glaring example came earlier this month, at the Egyptian team’s training camp in Chechnya, when he was reportedly 
Despite this, Salah isn’t overtly political; he says it’s for Egyptians, not Egypt, that he has put on the cleats of his national team. Yet he has power, and it comes from how, much like the revolution punctured the decades of stasis that preceded it, he is now puncturing the stark reality that has emerged since the revolution failed. Salah’s success may not redeem the state of the nation, but he offers an escape from the present moment and a long history of political disappointments. Whether we win or lose in Tuesday’s match against Russia, for Egyptians, Salah’s existence alone feels like a win. As the Liverpool fans say, “Mo Salah is a gift from Allah.”