
This 19th-century 
The 13,000-square-foot house, which has two stories, with seven bedrooms and bathrooms, is behind an iron gate, at the end of a long driveway flanked by olive trees and oleander bushes. It is oriented around a central courtyard and garden, in traditional Spanish style.
The double-height front doors are 300 years old and made of chestnut with large forged-iron nails. Throughout the house are period materials from Spain, Morocco and France installed during the renovation, including plaster cornices and floors of handmade terra-cotta tile. All of the main rooms have period fireplaces with wood-burning stoves, and all of the furniture is included in the asking price.
On the ground floor, there is a large drawing room, a dining room and an English country-style kitchen with a vintage Aga stove and two antique chandeliers. There are also five bedrooms, each with an en-suite bathroom and a private terrace, as well as a Moroccan-style indoor pool with red plaster walls, antique tiles and Moroccan lamps.
A staircase with an ornate metal balustrade leads to the second floor, where there are two large bedrooms of about 1,000 square feet each. Both have en-suite bathrooms with 
At the rear of the house are terraced gardens and an outdoor pool. The rest of the grounds are covered by trees that produce manzanilla olives, famed for their sweetness. They are harvested in November and December, Mr. Day said, and sold to a local cooperative.
The property also includes a single-car garage and a storeroom in the courtyard.
Several small villages with restaurants and markets are a 10- to 15-minute drive from the house, Mr. Day said. Seville, the capital of Andalusia and a popular tourist destination near the southern coast of Spain, is about a 30-minute drive. Known for its Moorish castle, old cathedral and other historic sites, it is also the location of the nearest international airport.
Home prices in Spain, which plummeted after the market crash in 2008, started to recover about three years ago in most areas. At the end of 2017, prices were up 7.2 percent since they hit bottom in 2015, although they are still 37.2 percent below their 2007 peak, according to a report from 
Major cities like Madrid and Barcelona began recovering first, said Alexander Vaughan, a founder of the Lucas Fox real estate agency in Barcelona. And “now the second- and third-tier cities are starting to pick up,” he said.
An improving economy and increased demand from international buyers are driving sales, agents said, noting that banks have also loosened mortgage restrictions, making it easier for buyers to finance a purchase.
“The financial system is granting mortgages easier than during the crisis, but not as carelessly as it did previously,” said Constanza Maya, the head of expansion and support for the real estate agency Engel & Völkers Spain.
But there has been little new construction in recent years, which has pushed up home prices in prime locations, said Ignacio Guzmán, the director of the commercial division at Kristina Szekely Sotheby’s International Realty, in Andalusia. “For a year and a half now, demand has exceeded supply,” Mr. Guzmán said.
While sales in some parts of Spain remain depressed, said Mark Stucklin, who runs Spanish Property Insight, a website that tracks the housing market, “generally speaking, demand and prices are rising in regional capitals and tourist destinations like Seville.”
Seville’s historic district and architecture play a role in that, giving the area a unique “real estate heritage,” Mr. Guzmán said, adding that traditional Andalusian homes are “very attractive for both local and foreign buyers.”
But in Seville and the surrounding area, where demand has also been increasing steadily, “housing stock is incredibly limited,” said Karina Karlsen, an agent with Fine & Country, the company listing this property.
Interest in property there, she noted, is driven by the low crime levels, the availability of land for horses and by “hobby farmers” interested in income from crops. This home, she said, could also be converted into a small hotel, another option popular with today’s buyers.
According to the 
The British have long been the largest group of foreign buyers in Andalusia, although there have been fewer British buyers “since the 
While most international buyers are looking for a second home or a place to retire, agents said, others are looking for homes to buy as an investment and for rental income.
But the Seville area tends to be more of a “local” market, said Ms. Maya of Engel & Völkers Spain, attracting buyers from elsewhere in the country, particularly Madrid, who “decide to buy when the economy is going well and when buying in the capital is no longer possible for their budgets.”
There are no restrictions on foreigners buying property in Spain, although nonresidents must first obtain a tax identification number. There is also a Golden Visa program that provides residency status to noncitizens who invest at least 500,000 euros (or about $588,000) in a property.
But foreign buyers would be advised to hire a lawyer to guide them through the process, as “the Spanish housing market lacks transparency,” Mr. Stucklin said.
Also, he said, “foreigners looking to buy need to do much more research to get an idea of pricing and what sells and what doesn’t before they jump in.”
A lawyer can research the title and ensure that there are no liens on the property, said Mr. Vaughan, of the Lucas Fox agency. That is especially important in rural areas, he added, where the specifics of deeds and boundary lines are “not always that clear.”
Buyers are generally required to provide a 10 percent deposit when a contract is signed. Mortgages are available to foreign buyers, but rates can be much higher than in other countries and usually cover only 50 to 70 percent of the sale price.
Official Seville tourism: 
Andalusia tourism: 
Property Registry information: 
Government housing price index: 
Spanish; euro (1 euro = $1.18)
Buyers can expect to pay 12 to 15 percent of the purchase price in taxes and fees, including a 10 percent transfer tax and notary fees, agents said.
The lawyer’s fee is typically about 1 percent of the sale price. The seller usually pays the real estate agent’s commission, which is about 5 percent of the sale price.
The property tax on this home is about 1,200 euros (or $1,400) a year.
Karina Karlsen, Fine & Country Spain, 011-34-952-930-532; 