
In Germany and elsewhere, coalitions of mainstream parties have made them indistinguishable to many voters and fueled the rise of nationalist demagogy. Our Interpreter columnist 
(Above, Chancellor Angela Merkel, center, who 
Hungary leads this trend. Prime Minister Viktor Orban 
_____
Israeli jets 
Our correspondent visited Kobani, a city in northern Syria, where the local Kurdish government plans to 
Separately, our video team looked at four men from West London who became known as 
_____
So far, Norway is leading the medal count (8), and Germany has the most gold medals (4). 
(You can also 
Gold in geopolitics went to North Korea. The visiting sister of Kim Jong-un outflanked President Trump’s envoy, Vice President Mike Pence, 
_____
Her ascendance 
“The truth is, my friends, I won’t fill Gerry’s shoes,” she said. “But the news is that I brought my own.”
Separately, ahead of March 4 elections in Italy, we profiled the country’s most popular female politician: 
_____
At a Berlin hotel, 
Separately in the U.S., Republican operatives 
_____
We have only just begun to 
transcript
Once upon a time, the devil laughed with fiendish glee, the gates of hell stood wide open and damnation lay in wait for everyone. But this story isn’t about the devil. It’s about God — and Martin Luther. Like most Catholics 500 years ago, Luther feared God. He prayed and prayed, but his fear persisted. Luther wondered why. He brooded long and hard upon the matter while walking, at church, even on the latrine. Until it hit him — “I found it! God does not hate us, He loves us,” he rejoiced. “We don’t need to be afraid. The Church exploits our fear to enrich itself,” was his provocative idea. Out of this idea grew many others, and Luther trumpeted them far and wide. “Such impudence!” fumed the pope, when he got wind of Luther’s views. His anger was unsurprising. After all, the Church had amassed a fortune selling indulgences. “What a lousy, no-good monk!” he cried. “Only the pope possesses the key to grace.” Luther protested, “Only God can bestow grace, and the pope is a mere man.” “Recant! I order you to obey,” the pope seethed. “Christians are free and subservient to no one,” Luther insisted. But this went too far for the pontiff, who now threatened Luther. “You will be excommunicated! Your writings will burn.” “Big deal,” scoffed Luther, as he heaped ridicule on the pope. “That’s it,” the pope raged. “This Luther, he must go,” he cried. And expelled him from the church. The emperor too took Luther to task for his beliefs. “Take it all back,” he demanded. “Especially that nonsense about freedom.” “That I cannot do,” Luther replied. “I must follow my conscience,” he said in defiance. “How dare you,” the emperor exclaimed, and declared Luther an outlaw. “Wait a minute,” the nobility thought. “Conscience and freedom aren’t such bad ideas.” City and municipal officials also got to thinking. “If what Luther says is true, then the church doesn’t deserve another penny. We alone should determine where our money goes.” But some Germans took this concept too far. When a merchant confronted a noble man for taking his horses and wanted to burn down his house, using Luther’s idea of freedom as justification, Luther set the record straight. “I never spoke of political freedom,” he said. “You are free in your thoughts, yet subjects you remain, nonetheless.” But it was too late. People had already embraced Luther and his ideas of freedom and conscience. Even now we honor him with books, quotes, praises, exhibitions on his legacy. The cultural and intellectual transformation he triggered remains with us around the world to this day.
The 
So where did the “Westminster” come from?
In the 1870s, a group of men met regularly at the Westminster Hotel near Union Square. They had an extraordinary affinity for the bar, as well as for dogs, and they decided to put on a dog show.
William F. Stifel’s book “
… They couldn’t agree on the name for their new club. But finally someone suggested that they name it after their favorite bar. The idea was unanimously selected, we imagine, with the hoisting of a dozen drinking arms.
After the Kentucky Derby, the Westminster Dog Show is the second-oldest continuously run sporting event in American history.
The first show had over 1,200 entries, and the judging took several days to choose a winner. (Here’s 
Last year, the 
Here’s 