
WASHINGTON — The trade war really is on — counterproductive and unnecessary and yet likely to last. President Trump’s 
The stalemate also is unnecessary: There are better options to address the White House’s concerns — including by turning to the World Trade Organization (W.T.O.). The idea may seem like a nonstarter at the moment, but its appeal will increase as the conflict drags on.
Here are two great powers, roughly matched in resources, competing for technological and strategic supremacy. America is experiencing an economic upturn, and the Trump administration believes that it can weather any fallout from the standoff.
China’s growth rate is declining and the country is more dependent on trade than the United States. But its government, being authoritarian, can more readily mobilize public support and make the country absorb short-term costs in the name of long-term development.
It assumes that the Chinese government controls the quantity and type of American goods purchased in China, when there, as elsewhere, such decisions are mostly made by households and companies. Anyway, 
Many of 
The problems that the American government complains about are partly a matter of optics. What makes China’s practices seem unfair is, at bottom, the role of the state in driving the economy and the scale of its activities. Together those factors appear to give Chinese firms an unfair advantage in negotiations with foreign companies, especially those eager to get into China’s huge market.
But altering China’s behavior on that front will require new international rules and some form of independent monitoring.
One obstacle, of course, is that Mr. Trump seems dead set against any such institution or arrangement. His administration has prematurely killed off the Trans-Pacific Partnership, as well as prospects for a bilateral investment treaty with China. And it is trying to do in the W.T.O.
It is blocking the appointment of new judges to the W.T.O. body that adjudicates trade disputes and threatening to withdraw from the organization itself — this even though America was instrumental in creating it in 1995 and 
The Trump administration is also eroding W.T.O. rules by 
China, for its part, 
That said, the W.T.O. as currently structured cannot adequately deal with a state-driven economy like China’s, as Mark Wu, a law professor at Harvard, 
So the W.T.O. needs to be revamped and strengthened, including with new rules to clarify what constitutes noncommercial assistance to state-owned enterprises and what conditions governments can impose on foreign participation in joint ventures.
Enter Europe: It is uniquely positioned to lead such reforms thanks to its longstanding strategic alliance with the United States, its growing economic connections with China and its steadfast support for the W.T.O.
Economic links between the United States and China are pervasive, but those between Europe and China are deeper. The total of Europe’s investment flows to China were more than twice those of the United States between 2005 and 2016, according to United Nations agencies.
Like the United States, 
So far, Europe’s leaders had been too preoccupied with their respective domestic concerns — Brexit, rising populist sentiments — to focus on reforming the global trading system. But America’s latest tariffs on China will hurt Europe, too, given Europe’s links with the Chinese economy. And just last week, 
If Europe develops a common understanding with China on how to revamp the organization, the option will become more difficult for the United States to ignore.
The Trump administration would, of course, need to change its current position. But shifting political and economic circumstances may give it a reason to. Whereas the vast majority of Republican respondents in a recent survey by the polling firm SurveyMonkey 
The White House could also point to any thorough overhaul of the W.T.O. as a victory, and an admission on China’s part that the United States’ concerns were legitimate. It could then address any specific issues that remained in 
As the costs of this trade war add up in the United States, too, more rational minds may prevail in Washington. And they will see that the way out of the impasse runs through the W.T.O., whether Mr. Trump likes it or not.