
LONDON — It’s one of the most celebrated graphs ever produced by economists.
The chart, 
What does this have to do with the art market? Well, pretty much everything. A decade after the 
“High-value celebrity art is completely disconnected from the everyday world,” said Stephen Bayley, a cultural commentator based in London. “It only exists for the very, very, very rich. Art is a new financial asset class, and this has altered the perspective of the more modest buyer.”
The elephant trunk of “ultrahigh net worth individuals” continues to push the prices of art trophies to 
“People of a certain generation have done their collecting. We’re waiting for the next generation to come through. But the disposable income just isn’t there,” said Adam Fileman, a director of 
Fileman is a 120-year-old family dealership specializing in antique glass and chandeliers, based in Sussex, in southern England. Nowadays, with domestic demand reduced, virtually all purchases of more than 10,000 pounds, or about $13,200, are made by foreign buyers, usually for chandeliers and usually via the internet, Mr. Fileman said.
Prices on his booth ranged from £320 for an engraved 18th-century drinking glass, to £120,000 for a George III chandelier. “It’s a weird atmosphere,” Mr. Fileman said on the Sunday of the fair. “People are walking round, but they’re not really buying.”
It’s no secret that the antiques, a once-ubiquitous element of comfortable middle-class homes, 
Yet the lower end of the market also remains a cause for concern in more fashionable areas.
In June, an international team of economists published the 
Much of that high net worth has been generated by “liquidity events” — such as a company buyout or cashed-in shares — rather than salaries. These windfalls allow today’s wealthy to buy bigger-ticket art by established names from the outset, bypassing lower value entry-level sales. This is one reason 
“But if you’re middle class, €5,000 is a lot,” Mr. Dooney said. “You want to know if it’s going to hold its value.”
This lower-value segment of the market is under pressure. Would-be collectors in the “squeezed middle” have become as concerned about investment as everyone else, and art and antiques in the $500 to $5,000 range offer uncertain returns.
Then why not simply enjoy owning art that you like? Well, even the concept of ownership has become problematic.
“People, particularly younger people, have much less desire to own stuff,” said Mr. Bayley, the cultural critic. “There’s consumer fatigue. And if you’re never going to be able to afford to buy a house, what’s the point of buying the stuff that goes in a house?”
And yet dealers and auction houses keep plugging away, coming up with new initiatives and strategies to keep the grass roots of the market alive, if not verdantly green.
“I show a lot of emerging artists, and under $20,000 is definitely the harder market,” said Andrew McClintock, director of 
But unlike Berlin, the San Francisco Bay Area is awash with 
Enigmatic drawings of tech-inspired tarot cards by Mieke Marple (who also formerly co-owned Los Angeles’s trendy Night Gallery) are currently among Mr. McClintock’s best sellers in the $3,000 to $10,000 range, he said, adding that younger collectors were encouraged by flexible payment plans and invoices payable in cryptocurrency. “Gallerists need to start thinking of themselves as entrepreneurs, not sit around waiting for a client to walk in the door,” Mr. McClintock said.
And then there is Bonhams, a London-based international auction house whose business model has (so far) relied on traditional lower and middle range art and antiques, plus classic cars, rather than the celebrity end of the contemporary market. Last year, Bonhams took £450 million, or about $600 million, in sales, according to a spokeswoman. Christie’s raised $6.6 billion.
This month, Bonhams was bought for an undisclosed sum by the British private equity company Epiris. 
Owen Wilson, a partner at Epiris, was more upbeat. “Bonhams is a global business operating in a market with long-term structural growth and high barriers to entry,” Mr. Wilson said in a statement. “It is a platform with extensive scope for transformation through investment.”
A spokeswoman for Epiris declined to comment further.
But for would-be middle class collectors, the “barriers to entry” at Bonhams and other businesses trying to sell art and collectibles valued at less than $20,000 — or even less than $5,000 — remain relatively low. Yet there is an obstacle.
An elephant is standing in the way.