
Our Beijing correspondent, a veteran of both Washington and Russia, details how China’s move to extend the rule of President Xi Jinping fits into 
Some critics fear that the U.S. has diminished moral authority — and inclination — to oppose the world’s slide toward more hard-line control.
Above, memorabilia showing Mr. Xi and his wife, and his predecessors.
_____
The U.N. secretary general, António Guterres, 
Russia ordered a daily humanitarian truce, but it was unclear if the Syrian government would respect it.
Meanwhile, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey is facing a backlash for bringing 
_____
Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer, a former state governor called “mini-Merkel” by the German news media, was elected general secretary of the governing Christian Democrats.
She is widely seen as having the necessary mix of liberalism and conservatism to unite a restive party base, 
The party also approved Mrs. Merkel’s coalition deal with the Social Democrats. That party’s results are expected by Sunday.
_____
As New York City debates charging drivers for using crowded streets, 
Commonalities: eased traffic, lowered pollution. Obstacles: outrage and skepticism from commuters and civic and business leaders.
Many in Silicon Valley 
_____
That 1665 painting by Johannes Vermeer is the subject of 
One mystery that will remain: the identity of the real-life girl, if there even was one.
But the unexpected cold also caused disruptions. As in other parts of Europe, train transport has been disrupted and many schools remain closed.
The effort paid off: The routes are increasingly popular and have even created jobs.
The Leaning Tower of Pisa has had its distinctive tilt since shortly after construction began in the 12th century, but it was on this day in 1964 that the Italian government decided things had gone too far.
Despite its location in the Piazza dei Miracoli (the Square of Miracles), the tower had become one miracle that needed a little human help to survive.
To prevent the loss of a national treasure — and tourism gold mine — the authorities in Italy asked for suggestions on how to correct the tower’s 13- to 14-foot lean from perpendicular.
But people had been offering advice long before that.
And previous attempts had gone awry, most notably one from Benito Mussolini in 1934.
The Italian dictator decided a leaning tower wasn’t a fitting symbol for his country, so he had holes drilled through the floor and 80 tons of concrete poured into the foundations.
It promptly lurched another few inches toward the ground.