
BRUSSELS — After winning a confidence vote and saving her job for now, Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain on Thursday had less success in extracting concessions from European Union leaders who rebuffed her pleas to help her salvage an embattled agreement on leaving the bloc.
At a summit meeting in Brussels, Mrs. May appealed to the other 27 leaders to start crafting new and legally binding reassurances that could be crucial in winning over critics of her deal on British withdrawal, or Brexit, in Britain’s Parliament.
But while the European leaders offered some reassuring words, Mrs. May was told her ideas were too vague and she was given no promise of the new commitments that she thinks could unblock her domestic logjam.
“There will be no legally binding new obligations imposed,” said Jean-Claude Juncker, president of the European Commission, adding that “this is crystal clear.” There could, he said, be some clarifications “but there will be no renegotiation.”
Mrs. May’s pitch had always been optimistic, given the divisions in the British Parliament and the demands by some legislators for a legally binding exit from provisions that were meant to be indefinite guarantees.
But not for the first time, Mrs. May was accused of being fuzzy in her requests to European leaders. Mr. Juncker described her suggestions as “nebulous and imprecise,” adding that the British still needed to say what they wanted. In fact, the British plan had been to start discussions that might conclude in a couple of weeks on legally binding commitments.
Those talks could still take place, but there was no mention from the European side of any further meetings or deadlines, and the comments by Mr. Juncker contrasted with Mrs. May’s appeal to the leaders to “leave nothing in reserve” in seeking a way out of the impasse.
She had arrived at the summit meeting defiant but politically damaged after 117 of her own party’s lawmakers 
Because of the political turmoil in London, Mrs. May needs to persuade European leaders that they are not wasting their time offering new concessions that are then destined to be spurned by British lawmakers.
“There is a majority in my Parliament who want to leave with a deal,” she told the other leaders, according to comments released by her office, “so with the right assurances this deal can be passed.”
The clock is ticking toward March 29 when, if there is no agreement, Britain could suffer an economically disastrous “no-deal” Brexit. Mrs. May is hoping that the imminence of that threat will concentrate minds and ultimately force lawmakers to support her unpopular blueprint when it goes to the British Parliament again in January. Still, preparations for a disorderly Brexit are being stepped up on both sides of the English Channel.
There is wide admiration in Brussels for the persistence of Ms. May, and a recognition that the bloc deals with governments equally, even a weak one that is leaving. But there is exhaustion, too, and even annoyance that she has failed to bring her own party, let alone her Parliament, to an understanding of the benefits the Europeans believe the divorce settlement contains.
Many of Mrs. May’s lawmakers are angry about “backstop” plans to prevent physical checks after Brexit on goods crossing the border between Ireland and Northern Ireland. Under these proposals, the whole of the United Kingdom would stay in a customs union with the European Union, while Northern Ireland would be subject to even more of Europe’s rules.
Mrs. May wants legally binding assurances that this situation will be temporary to calm fears that Britain might be trapped indefinitely in a relationship that obliges it to obey rules it will have no role in shaping.
A formal statement from the European Union leaders promised that it was their “firm determination” to ensure “that the backstop will not need to be triggered,” and added that, were it put into operation “it would apply temporarily, unless and until it is superseded by a subsequent agreement.”
But there is no obvious willingness to give Mrs. May a “legally binding” way for Britain to get out of the backstop if a deal cannot be reached down the road. That would undermine the whole point of the backstop as a guarantee, the Europeans argue.
The Dutch are among those who want a close, cooperative post-Brexit relationship with Britain. But even the Dutch prime minister, Mark Rutte, could only promise so much.
“At this point I can’t say whether we can give legal assurances, because it’s unclear what Theresa May means by that,” Mr. Rutte said on Thursday. “There are dozens of different forms of legal assurances, all very complex, so I can’t even say at this point whether it’s possible or not.”
The Dutch are nonetheless preparing for a no-deal Brexit, and have even hired nearly 750 extra customs personnel to deal with the current withdrawal agreement. They believe they will need another 200, at least, if the deal falls apart.
At least the atmospherics were better than at some previous meetings. Sebastian Kurz, the Austrian chancellor, said that all the leaders “agree that we don’t want to renegotiate the withdrawal agreement, but besides that, especially on the future relationship, there is some room and I think that we should use it.”
“I feel sympathy for Theresa May, I think she’s doing a good job,” he added.
Xavier Bettel, the prime minister of Luxembourg, was speaking to the news media when Mrs. May arrived, unexpectedly, on the red carpet behind him. He greeted her with the words: “I want to help.”