
New Zealand’s intelligence agency 
The move follows a similar decision in 
New Zealand’s decision also further divides the world into places that accept Chinese investments and places that don’t.
_____
The Chinese scientist He Jiankui, above, who claims to have created the world’s first genetically edited babies, 
But many other scientists were worried. Dr. He revealed his research only after the babies were born this month. And it appears he didn’t seek approval from Chinese regulators. A moderator at the conference asked him, “Why so much secrecy around this?”
The birth of gene-edited children is alarming for both practical and theoretical reasons. First and foremost are safety concerns. Then there is the concern that editing could be used to create babies with superior skills or desired physical features.
_____
A student told our writer that his parents in California were receiving mysterious packages at their house. Each was addressed to “Returns Department, Valley Fountain LLC.”
That led the writer on a journey through bizarre Amazon storefronts selling everything from hemorrhoid creams to a book on industrial electricity. All the LLCs had something in common: Their registered agent was the same man.
When our writer kept digging, she found connections to Newsweek, a department store in New York and a church. And the story kept getting stranger.
_____
After a flurry of fast-paced tiebreakers, the Norwegian player Magnus Carlsen 
The first twelve games in the tournament, some of which lasted up to seven hours, all ended in draws — a first for the championship, which dates back to the 1800s.
Mr. Carlsen, above, the world’s top-ranked chess player for the past eight years, has 
_____
“Mary Poppins Returns” will glide into Los Angeles tonight for its red carpet premiere. Emily Blunt, portraying the title character, hopes to fill the large shoes left by Julie Andrews in the 1964 film.
But Mary Poppins existed before either of those two British actresses was even born. She flew into the world in 1934 on the pen of the author P.L. Travers, above.
Travers was born Helen Lyndon Goff in Queensland, Australia, in 1899. As a teenager, she was a Shakespearean actress, a dancer, a journalist and a poet.
She moved to England in 1924 and soon dreamed up a governess who slid up banisters and imparted cheeky life lessons. A decade later, “Mary Poppins” was published in London to critical acclaim. Travers would continue to write stories about Poppins over the next half century. She died in 1996.
“I think the idea of Mary Poppins has been blowing in and out of me, like a curtain at a window, all my life,” she 