
People came together in synagogues and cemeteries, united in grief over the Jewish worshipers killed in a shooting but split over a visit by President Trump.
Mr. Trump began his visit at the Tree of Life synagogue, where the 11 people were killed by a man spewing anti-Semitic rage and carrying four guns, which were 
Mr. Trump went with the first lady — above center with a rabbi, Jeffrey Myers — and his Jewish daughter and son-in-law, who have helped 
In the usually placid neighborhood of Squirrel Hill, now anguished by the attack, protesters gathered with messages like “President Hate is not welcome in our state.”
Meanwhile, in a new pledge to his anti-immigrant base, Mr. Trump said he would 
Doing so by executive order would be a 
_____
Hurricane-force winds and small tornadoes lashed Italy this week from Piedmont to Sicily, and the comprehensive mayhem left at least 11 people dead and many more injured or stranded.
Emergency officials were scrambling as fish swam in the streets of one town, century-old felled trees blocked roads in Rome and the mayor of Naples described “an atmospheric earthquake.”
In Venice, residents and tourists tottered on raised walkways or just waded, and many shops and restaurants were inundated.
There are now fears that the salt water will corrode some city treasures, and while a divisive, multibillion-dollar system of floodgates could have helped, it’s unfinished.
_____
A suddenly urgent question is who will be able to counterbalance forces tearing at Europe’s unity in the eventual absence of Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, who said she would retire after her term.
Ms. Merkel, above, has stood in the way of the populists who took over in Italy, Hungary and Poland. But now even Germany is considered politically unstable, and 
An analyst told us that Ms. Merkel “created European consensus out of nothing,” and everyone wonders, “My God, who will do the job for her?”
_____
An 
“What’s interesting is that disgust is hard-wired biologically,” said Samuel West, the lead curator at the Disgusting Food Museum, a touring exhibition. “But you still have to learn from your surroundings what you should find disgusting.”
Consider the lobster, once regarded as unfit for prisoners. Or maggot-infested pecorino, which some people willingly eat.
More than 80 items from 35 countries are displayed. Australians have been galled by the inclusion of Vegemite, Americans by root beer. Above, pork brains.
• 
India is set 
At 597 feet (182 meters) tall, the statue, above, is almost twice the total height of the Statue of Liberty, including the pedestal, in New York City.
At the time of his death in 1950, Patel was 
After independence, he became India’s first deputy prime minister and faced the outsize task of weaving together all of India’s disparate parts.
As sectarian violence exploded and 
Those states were never fully under British control, ruled instead by indigenous monarchs. Had they decided to remain autonomous, the newly independent country could have been further divided.
Patel negotiated with the different rulers and, within 
The states that initially resisted eventually gave in to pressure, although one, 
The statue dedicated to Patel is called the Statue of Unity.