
As much as it prides itself on upholding tradition, England is actually at its best when breeding rebellion, allowing for a renegade spirit — along with the sense that the impossible might be imminent — that has long informed its fashion. Think of Mary Quant’s scandalously short miniskirts and shift dresses, which came to symbolize ’60s youth culture, or the S&M-inspired outfits that 
Now that those former newcomers are the well-known faces of established brands, yet another generation of U.K.-based designers is upon us. 
These designers are also leading the diversity charge. Ta, who is British-Chinese-Vietnamese and spent his childhood moving with his six siblings between council estates in South London, never forgets that “this city becomes a second home for a lot of people,” casting mostly models of color and mining his own mixed heritage for inspiration. His collections pair chinoiserie and embroidered dragon motifs with Western staples such as cowboy boots, frayed denim and even a tongue-in-cheek take on the Burberry check (“there’s something so typically Asian tourist about it. My mom’s obsessed with Burberry”). Dilara Findikoglu, 27, meanwhile, grew up in a conservative Muslim family in Istanbul, before moving to London in 2009 to study at Central Saint Martins. “I felt like an outsider, and it pushed me to imagine all these fantastical things,” she says of her gothic-inflected dresses and punk rock jumpsuits. While not inherently opposed to growth, she is determined to stay thoughtful about it: This summer, Findikoglu expanded her label with a collection of bridal looks for straight, same-sex and nonbinary couples.
The three also share some of their predecessors’ flair for provocation — the models in Bovan’s first solo runway show in February wore 
From left: 
Best known for designing the signage for the Seagram Building, the late graphic designer turned artist 
Cohen got her start by doing odd jobs and clerical work for her first husband, 
In October, another exhibition will open at 
Top row, from left: 
Bottom row, from left: 
There is little question that marijuana, quietly consumed since at least the early 20th century, has been having its moment in the sun. Cannabis is now legal in 30 states, nine of which allow it not only for medicinal purposes, but for sheer fun, too. The streets of New York, once perfumed with overripe garbage, are today nearly as redolent with weed as a Negril beach. Even John Boehner, the former Republican House speaker, 
The debut of this dazzling yet delicate V-shaped necklace by Bulgari may be the ultimate sign that the drug has become not merely acceptably mainstream, but proudly distingué. Fashioned from white gold with nearly 15 carats of diamonds in various luminous cuts, and more than five carats of pavé-set emeralds, it sparkles and winks — with light, of course, but also at the conventions of what high jewelry should be. Like the gem-encrusted coke spoons that once dangled from the necks of revelers in Manhattan’s riotous nightclub, 