
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning. 
The U.S. says it’s leaving Syria, an attorney general sues Facebook and Der Spiegel fires a writer for deception. Here’s the latest: 
“We have defeated ISIS in Syria, my only reason for being there during the Trump Presidency,” the president said in a Twitter post. The White House did not provide a timetable or other specifics for the pullout.
Lawmakers and Pentagon officials argued that the move would betray Kurdish allies who have fought alongside American troops in Syria, and who could now be vulnerable to an attack by Turkey. 
The 
The New York Times and other news organizations reported in March that Cambridge Analytica, a political consulting firm based in London, had improperly obtained the data of as many as 87 million Facebook users.
In Mr. Racine’s lawsuit, he said that roughly half of Washington’s residents had been exposed by Cambridge Analytica’s data harvesting. He also said Facebook had misled people about the security of their data.
The Fed’s chairman, Jerome H. Powell, said the choppy global economy and the recent sell-off in stocks had gotten the Fed’s attention, but he called the move “appropriate.”
U.S. stocks 
Markets were well prepared for a rate increase, but policymakers had also been expected to calm jittery investors by emphasizing that further increases in 2019 would depend on sustained economic growth.
The German magazine said the writer, 
Mr. Relotius, 33, had written for Der Spiegel since 2011. He admitted to making up parts of at least 14 articles, the magazine said, adding that the figure could rise.
Clare Macdonald, a reader from Keene, N.H., asked us when the first electric lights were used on a Christmas tree.
Eighty walnut-size red, white and blue bulbs covered the tree, which sat on a revolving box. A newspaper article described it: “As the tree turned, the colors alternated, all the lamps going out and being relit at every revolution. The result was a continuous twinkling of dancing colors, red, white, blue, white, red, blue, all evening.”
President Grover Cleveland popularized electric Christmas lights in the 1890s by 
But it was not until (relatively) inexpensive 