
at 24 seconds
Igor Levit — who won one of the most prestigious prizes in music this week, the $300,000 Gilmore Artist Award — allows his politics to inform his artistry to an extent that is rare in the classical world. At the first night of the BBC Proms last summer, in a London consumed by Brexit, Mr. Levit made a pointed statement with his encore, Beethoven’s “Ode to Joy,” the anthem of the European Union, a point he underlined with the
AT 1 MINUTE 10 SECONDS
In his first appearance after winning the Gilmore, a celebratory talk and recital at the Greene Space on Thursday night, Igor Levit opened with understated virtuosity: the Chaconne from Bach’s Partita No. 2 for violin, transcribed for the left hand by Brahms. The piece takes place mostly in the piano’s lower range, which is notoriously muddy, but not in Mr. Levit’s hands — er, hand. Many critics have noted his phenomenal precision, and you can hear why in this recording of Frederic Rzewski’s 1975 variations on “The People United Will Never Be Defeated!” In the final movement, the theme returns as hammered chords (marked with accents on top of a forte) played almost entirely on the lower half of the piano. The melody inside those chords couldn’t be clearer. 
AT 2 MINUTES 47 SECONDS
Ahead of her performances with the New York Philharmonic this week, the cellist Alisa Weilerstein joined us for a Facebook Live concert and interview. She closed with the two bourrées from Bach’s Suite No. 3 in C, which she has been touring as part of a three-hour marathon of all six of Bach’s cello suites. I asked when we could expect a recording; alas, likely not this year. But this led me back to her other albums, including her impassioned recording of Dvorak’s Cello Concerto with the Czech Philharmonic Orchestra in 2014. Her playing has the expressive power of human voice — especially in the second movement, in which Dvorak borrows the melody from his lied “Lasst mich allein.” The song’s opening line, “Leave me alone in my dreams,” comes through in Ms. Weilerstein’s playing, with the fragile sincerity of a pleading heart. 
At 1 minute 46 seconds
Electronic works by the composer Natasha Barrett were 
at 1 minute 3 seconds
The charismatic tenor Vittorio Grigolo, who never holds back, is a hotheaded and heroic
AT 1 MINUTE 17 SECONDS
Sergei Prokofiev, an adherent of Christian Science, was not especially known for settings of music of the Russian Orthodox Church, so he seemed the odd man out amid the likes of Kastalsky, Chesnokov and Rachmaninoff in a New Year’s program by the PaTRAM Institute Singers and the Clarion Choir. At the end of the PaTRAM half of the program came “Many Years,” Prokofiev’s arrangement of a centuries-old refrain for the coronation scene in Eisenstein’s 1944 film “Ivan the Terrible.” Here the festival choir of the Summer School of Liturgical Music at Holy Trinity Monastery in Jordanville, N.Y., sings it, after a minute of rising chant — a signature of the style — sung by a basso profundo acting as deacon: “Grant, O Lord, a prosperous and peaceful life.”
at 30 seconds 
In a 1910 letter to the composer Edgar Varèse, Debussy complained of feeling betrayed by “so-called” pianists. “I can’t tell you the extent to which my piano music has been deformed,” he wrote. This year, the centennial of Debussy’s death, will offer many opportunities to hear his music, including the piano works. What bothered him about the way many pianists played his music, I think, is that they took the “Impressionist” label (and Debussy disliked that word) as an invitation for excessively loose rhythm and overly blurry textures. We have a few precious examples of Debussy at the piano. In 1904 he recorded a few short songs and a brief excerpt from “Pelléas et Mélisande” with Mary Garden, the soprano Debussy chose to create the role of Mélisande in 1902. Here they are in the fifth song (“Green”) from his cycle “Ariettes Oubliées.” You have to listen closely and disregard the surface noise. Debussy plays the lilting opening lightly and crisply. When splashes of watery arpeggios break out, the sound is milky but also wonderfully scintillating. 
AT 53 SECONDS
Tenet ushered out the Christmas season on Wednesday with Vespers music of the 17th-century German master Michael Praetorius, who has always struck me as the proprietor of the holiday candy store. His sweets include multiple settings of the hymn “Puer Natus in Bethlehem” (“A Boy Is Born in Bethlehem”), sung by Tenet this week in a version different from the more elaborate one it sings here, in a 2013 performance in San Diego with the Dark Horse Consort and the Bach Collegium San Diego.