
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
A new direction for 
A deeper look at Russia’s extraordinary social media influence campaign during the 2016 presidential election revealed efforts to target African Americans and suppress Democratic voter turnout, according to 
The reports also showed that Russia utilized every digital surface available, including Instagram where its efforts were as effective or more effective than activity on Facebook.
The S.&P. 500 
The benchmark index has now lost almost 5 percent for the year and if it doesn’t rebound by the end of year, the losses could represent Wall Street’s worst year since the 2008 financial crisis. Other indexes were also sharply down.
“Every part of the market has been acting like things are a lot slower,” one expert said.
Less than two weeks ago, France’s president was faced with the fury and frustrations of the “Yellow Vests” protests, a crisis that threatened his survival in office.
Though the movement has already started to simmer down — after a terror attack in Strasbourg and promises of quick economic relief — the “Yellow Vests” may have 
Mr. Macron has been forced to backtrack on some tax increases and rethink
Most of the criticism of the Yemen war is focused on airstrikes, carried out by the Saudi-led coalition, which have targeted weddings, funerals and a school bus.
But our reporter found that the conflict is also 
Though both warring sides have carried out maritime attacks, experts said there was little doubt that the Saudi-led coalition was responsible for the violence against fishermen.
Today, Keith Richards turns 75.
There are many who consider this achievement nothing short of a miracle. His career has been littered with one near-death experience after the other.
In 1965, he was electrocuted onstage in Sacramento. He recalled lying in the hospital and 
While in the throes of a heroin addiction in the 1970s, he barely escaped several house fires. He fell asleep at the wheel.
In 2006, he fell out of a palm tree in Fiji, fracturing his skull. Two years later, he taunted death once more, snorting his dead father’s ashes. “Ashes to ashes, father to son,” he wrote in his memoir.
But Richards appears to have mellowed out: Last week he said he has 
Here’s to the next 75.