
BERLIN — Olaf Scholz took over as Germany’s finance minister in March. Since then, President Trump has threatened to slap tariffs on German cars, called Europe a “foe” and dispatched an ambassador to Berlin who takes selfies with far-right politicians eager to bring down the German government.
But in an interview in his sparsely decorated fourth-floor office in the finance ministry, once the headquarters of the Nazi Luftwaffe, Mr. Scholz professed to be “relaxed.”
There is nothing like a bit of venom from the White House to unite Europe’s “progressive liberal center,” says the man who is Chancellor Angela Merkel’s No. 2.
“Europe won’t be pushed around,” Mr. Scholz said, smiling serenely. “The present U.S. administration, if you will, has become a catalyst for an ever-closer European integration process.”
Short, balding and poker-faced, Mr. Scholz is by default the leading voice of social democracy in Europe, a movement in crisis trying to prove its relevance in the age of populism. He was a fiery young socialist in the 1970s who gradually mellowed into a post-ideological centrist. First defending workers as a labor lawyer, then defending labor-market reforms to workers and now co-governing with a conservative Chancellor, Mr. Scholz has traveled a journey that in many ways tracks that of his ailing Social Democratic Party.
But while support for the Social Democrats is at a postwar low, Mr. Scholz has quietly risen to become one of Germany’s most popular politicians. “Liberal, but not stupid,” is how he once described himself.
To his fans, Mr. Scholz is a voice of calm and confidence, a pragmatist from Germany’s taciturn north who represents the elusive silent majority.
To his critics, he is overly relaxed about the challenges facing Europe and Germany in 2018 and lacks bold ideas to match his optimism.
Last year, he published a book about Germany entitled “Land of Hope.” Six months later, the far-right Alternative for Germany had become the largest opposition party in the German Parliament. But Mr. Scholz’s mantra is unchanged: Stick to social democratic principles and moderation instead of trying to beat the populists at their own game.
“We have this problem with right-wing populism in Europe and in other parts of the world,” he said. “But we mustn’t act as if that was the biggest problem we have. In fact, we are growing closer together.”
The answer was typical for a man Germans have long known as the “Scholz-o-mat,” a technocrat and veteran politician who can seem not just utterly unflappable but almost robotically on message.
Italy’s populist wobbles?
“New governments come and go, we mustn’t lose our cool.”
Brexit?
“Very regrettable,” but “Frankfurt will gain as a financial hub.”
A possible trade war with the United States?
“I’m confident we’ll find a solution.”
What about Alternative for Germany snapping at the heels of his own shrinking party and in some polls overtaking it?
“I believe the Social Democrats can be the strongest party at the next election,” Mr. Scholz insisted, though at this point his smile looked a little more forced.
On Europe, too, he is adamant that the answer to growing public disenchantment with Europe’s institutions is not less Europe, but more. He has scheduled a series of “citizens’ office hours” in coming months, to discuss ordinary Germans’ concerns about the European Union.
Mr. Scholz’ first trip after taking office in March was to Paris — he was there so fast he beat even his boss, Ms. Merkel. He supports French President Emmanuel Macron’s ambition to revamp Europe with a joint strike force, common rules on migration and asylum, strong external borders and a European foreign policy unencumbered by the need for unanimous decision-making by its 28 member states. Mr. Scholz wants to introduce simple majority voting so Europe can play a more decisive role on the geopolitical stage.
“Europe has been too apolitical,” he said. “It was always focused on economics and trade. Citizens want more politics, they want a Europe that shows what it can do, whether that’s on economics or on foreign policy.”
But when it comes to Mr. Macron’s most ambitious proposals — a European finance minister and budget — Mr. Scholz toes the traditional German line that, for now at least, budgetary prudence takes precedence over lofty political goals.
“A European finance minister is more of a long-term goal,” he said. “Right now, we should not get caught up in this,” he said, and instead should focus on “reforming the banking and finance sector and securing the future stability of the eurozone in order to be prepared for coming financial crises.”
One of the more intriguing questions surrounding him is how like — or unlike — he is from 
But so far there is scant evidence that Mr. Scholz represents a stark break from Mr. Schäuble’s stance. As Mr. Scholz has put it: “A German finance minister is a German finance minister.”
At home, despite a booming economy and record-low unemployment, many Germans are angry about stagnant salaries and a feeling that a tiny elite has profited the most from economic growth. Mr. Scholz, the middle-class son of a businessman and married to another politician, knows that he is part of that perceived elite.
Populism is a problem, he conceded. In Germany, the resentments that most recently fed far-right protests in the eastern city of Chemnitz have not been fully understood.
“There is something going on, and not just here,” he said. “In the wealthy nations, people are in a bad mood, despite the good economic numbers.”
He added: “There used to be a promise that if you worked hard and your employer was doing well you would get a share. That promise is in danger.”
Restoring it, he said, “is the social democratic project.”
One direct way to address the sense of insecurity and the fear of the future that are relentlessly fueled and exploited by populists, he said, is to increase pensions and ensure decent wages.
In person, Mr. Scholz oozes a distinctly northern German temperament, betraying few emotions and only occasionally allowing himself a quiet chuckle. He spent most of his life in Hamburg, Germany’s second city, where he liked to go rowing in the mornings and served as mayor until March this year.
As mayor, Mr. Scholz made a point of writing a personal letter to every migrant who had lived in the city for eight years, encouraging them to apply for German citizenship and offering to meet them in person. Six times a year, he would attend the citizenship ceremonies in city hall, which he called “a very moving experience.”
It is that experience, too, that makes him more sanguine about Germany’s ability to weather the challenges brought on by the arrival of more than a million migrants since 2015, and the populist backlash that has followed.
“German democracy is stable,” he said. “It has grown over many decades and is now deeply rooted.”
As for populism elsewhere, governments come and go, Mr. Scholz says, but Germany’s links to the United States — based on what he called “a shared democratic tradition of civil rights and liberal democracy” — run deeper.
But, he said, his cryptic smile back in full force, “Europe is sizable.” And as if to remind those paying attention on the other side of the Atlantic, he added: “Europe’s G.D.P. is bigger than that of the United States.”