
Mr. Trump also warned that the Kremlin should not partner with Syria’s president, Bashar al-Assad, calling him a “Gas Killing Animal who kills his people and enjoys it!”
Mr. Trump’s early morning tweets were a remarkable instance of telegraphing American strategy. He’s being taken seriously: There were signs that Syria was moving crucial aircraft to a Russian base for protection, and Iran said it would support Mr. Assad in case of foreign aggression.
_____
The announcement blindsided many Republicans and 
“This is the nightmare scenario,” said former Representative Thomas M. Davis, a Virginia Republican. “Everybody figured he’d just hang in there till after the election.”
Speculation that Mr. Ryan would run for president ran rampant on Twitter 
_____
Lawmakers on both sides of the aisle grilled Mr. Zuckerberg over the company’s handling of user data, with a focus on privacy settings.
Privacy advocates say 
_____
Investigators are trying to learn why a Russian-built Algerian military plane crashed shortly after takeoff in Algiers, the capital, 
Witnesses told local news outlets that they had seen flames coming from one engine. The plane lurched in the sky and crashed on one wing, one bystander said.
A defense official said at least two people had survived. President Abdelaziz Bouteflika declared three days of mourning.
_____
Mr. Xi portrayed himself as a champion of free trade and the global world order, but elsewhere China’s increasing power and forceful tactics raised alarms.
Australia warned China against building a military base in the South Pacific after a report that the Chinese had 
And a human rights organization has detailed how the 
Today is the 102nd birthday of Beverly Cleary, the prolific and celebrated American author.
Her children’s books have been translated into many languages and have sold tens of millions of copies around the world. She was 
Her birthday is honored in the U.S. as 
But she struggled with reading as a child, according to 
Portland’s libraries allowed her to quickly catch up. In fact, her school librarian suggested she start writing herself.
She liked the idea, but found no model for the types of stories she wanted to read: funny tales about the sort of children she knew. Years later, after working as a librarian herself, she changed that.
Her first book, “Henry Huggins” (1950) introduced contemporary characters like Henry, Ramona Quimby and other residents of the fictional Klickitat Street. She dramatized everyday problems in a humorous style, without condescension.
She lives in Northern California, and gave 