
At the top of the agenda: 
Mr. Trump and Mr. Macron were particularly warm toward each other. We explore “
On the fashion front, our critic weighed in on the wide-brimmed white hat 
_____
But when a local business group began 
Another group caught in the tailwinds of Britain’s move to the right was the “Windrush generation” — Caribbeans invited to Britain to help rebuild after World War II — which faced 
_____
Prosecutors charged him with 10 counts of first-degree murder and 13 counts of attempted murder, but did not disclose a motive. Above, a memorial.
We spoke to people who knew him and saw his now-suspended Facebook page, which showed he was socially isolated and had expressed hostility toward women. He had briefly joined the armed forces, but quit after 16 days of basic training.
_____
The conclusion of the trial does not necessarily signal an end of interest in the initiative (other trials are underway around the world) but rather public discomfort over the idea of giving out government money without requiring recipients to seek work. Above, a co-working space in Finland.
Finnish social services are already notoriously generous, which could be the main reason that basic income lost momentum: It is effectively redundant. The experiment will conclude at the end of the year.
Before Michael Jordan, one of the world’s most famous basketball players was another native of the North Carolina city of Wilmington: 
Lemon, who was born on this day in 1932, never played in the National Basketball Association. That’s because when Lemon (third from left in the front row, above) joined the Harlem Globetrotters in 1954, their mix of comedy and basketball legerdemain was the biggest draw in the game. (
The team played thousands of exhibitions around the world for millions of fans — and even helped 
The Globetrotters were founded in Chicago in 1926 and didn’t play a game in Harlem until 1968. Lemon led the team to 
The Globetrotters have been credited with 
Lemon, who died in 2015, wrote in his memoir about the Globetrotters: “They had done more for the perception of black people and for the perception of America than almost anything you could think of.”