
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning. 
The briefing will be off for a couple of days. We’ll see you again on Thursday. 
Now, back to the news:
The 
House Republicans 
The company, which makes about $5 billion in profit per quarter, says it is doing everything it can to get rid of posts that sow social division and even violence.
But it must also continue to attract users from more countries and try to keep them on the site longer to maintain the endless expansion that is core to its business.
The company’s solution: a network of moderators using a maze of PowerPoint slides spelling out what’s forbidden, according to 
King Salman of Saudi Arabia 
Generation Identity is a far-right German youth movement that is under observation by several European intelligence agencies. The group aims to bring down liberalism and rid Europe of non-European immigrants.
But you would never have guessed.
The group is part hippie, part hipster. Members are better dressed, better educated and less angry than the skinheads of older iterations of the right wing. In fact, the “new right” 
We often hear from readers asking why we use unnamed sources.
The reason is straightforward: Some people in sensitive positions will only speak candidly if their names aren’t used.
But we know our credibility is on the line. So we make sure to get the story right.
“Under our guidelines, anonymous sources should be used only for information that we think is newsworthy and credible, and that we are not able to report any other way,” our standards editor, Phil Corbett, explains in our series 
“We have to be skeptical,” he adds. “How does the source know this information? Can we corroborate it? What’s the source’s motivation for telling us?”
And the reporter must tell an editor who the source is.
“Use of anonymous sourcing in any story must be approved by a high-ranking editor, usually a department head,” Mr. Corbett writes. “When it’s central to the story, it generally must be approved by an even higher-ranking editor.” 