
China offered its 
The chairman of Xinjiang’s government, Shohrat Zakir, said the camps were “humane” and provided “vocational education and training” to weed out “terrorism and religious extremism.” He appeared to acknowledge for the first time that people were being held against their will. He added that the program targeted people suspected of wrongdoing.
That is disputed by former inmates, who claim that even individuals with no connection to extremism have been taken in and subjected to harsh brainwashing.
The statements confirmed a shift in China’s public relations strategy, from silence in the face of international criticism to an unapologetic defense.
_____
Secretary of State Mike Pompeo met with King Salman and the crown prince of Saudi Arabia, pictured above, to discuss the disappearance of the journalist 
Beneath the pleasantries, they were working to ease a diplomatic crisis.
The U.S. seems to be leaving room for a new version of events, with Mr. Trump suggesting that perhaps “rogue killers” had been involved.
But a source familiar with Saudi plans told us that the Kingdom was likely to admit Mr. Khashoggi died at its consulate in Istanbul — during an interrogation gone awry.
That could put Mr. Trump in an awkward situation. He doesn’t want the case to affect arms sales. And while the U.S. is 
_____
The earthquake and tsunami that struck the island of Sulawesi were unavoidable. But the scale of the destruction might not have been.
The city of Palu sits in one of the most tectonically active parts of Earth, hard-wiring regular earthquakes into its constitution. Experts had long warned that what happened last month — an earthquake, followed by a tsunami and liquefaction — was very likely.
But officials there were still 
“We failed the people of Palu,” said the city’s former mayor.
_____
A day into their 16-day tour of Australia, Prince Harry and his wife, Meghan Markle, have been portrayed as the new, young face of royalty.
But their trip is also seen as an attempt to charm skeptics in the crowds, to smooth Australia’s 
Australia is a Commonwealth country and Queen Elizabeth II is the head of state. As in Britain, her role is mostly ceremonial. But a group of Australians has been advocating for complete independence and an end to ties with the monarchy; a recent poll showed 48 percent of Australians supported this plan.
_____
_____
“The poet and warrior,” Pauli Murray once wrote, “grapple in my brain.”
The warrior side of that equation is largely responsible for the recent surge of interest in Murray (1910-85), an African-American civil rights activist and lawyer who fought for racial justice and women’s equality.
Murray, above, also came to think of herself as a man, which makes her story even more resonant today. 
But Murray was also a poet, and today is Black Poetry Day, observed by many schools and libraries in the U.S.
Orphaned young and raised by an aunt in Durham, N.C., Murray grew up reading 
“I sing of a new American / Separate from all others,” she writes in 
It concludes: “I seek only discovery / Of the illimitable heights and depths of my own being.”