
The carmaker’s shares went on a roller-coaster ride yesterday. 
More from Tim Higgins, Marc Vartabedian and Christina Rogers of the WSJ:
Separately, several suppliers in interviews said Tesla has tried to stretch out payments or asked for significant cash back. And in some cases, public records show, small suppliers over the past several months have claimed they failed to get paid for services supplied to Tesla.
No one spoke of wanting to cut ties to Tesla. Elon Musk responded that when his company hadn’t paid promptly, it was sometimes because the suppliers had sent the wrong parts. He added the following reassurance: “We are definitely not going bankrupt.”
The president doesn’t like it when rates go up. He hasn’t been shy about saying so:
■ He 
■ He 
■ And last month 
The latest attacks 
Mr. Powell may explain his own thinking at 
It once led the pack in courting Chinese investment — for new ports, a rail network, and even artificial islands. But Mahathir Mohamad, the country’s returning leader, says he 
Looming over all this is the vision behind China’s investments. Hannah Beech of the NYT explains:
Fears are growing that China is using its overseas spending spree to gain footholds in some of the world’s most strategic places, and perhaps even deliberately luring vulnerable nations into debt traps to increase China’s dominion as the United States’ influence fades in the developing world.
China and the U.S. will hold trade talks in Washington this week. (President Trump told Reuters he 
Bob Davis and Andrew Duehren of the WSJ explain 
The twin administration initiatives — pursuing tariffs on $200 billion of Chinese goods while relaunching talks to scrap tariffs — underscore a split within the U.S. administration, with negotiators in the U.S. Treasury Department offering a carrot, while the office of the U.S. trade representative threatens with a stick, both with the approval of President Trump, according to people familiar with the administration’s internal deliberations. “Trump is a deal guy,” said one person closely following the talks. Until the Chinese make a concrete offer, the person said, Mr. Trump will continue to encourage the dueling agencies about what action to take.
Venezuela 
But strangest of all is that Venezuela is 
That cryptocurrency, called the “Petro,” does not trade, and Venezuela’s own parliament says it’s being illegally used to mortgage the nation’s cash-strapped oil reserves.
The initial coin offering ratings website ICOindex.com 
Around 210 former Lehman Brothers employees are expected to party in London next month on 
Critics have attacked the event, whose location is a tightly guarded secret. John McDonnell, the U.K. Labour Party’s finance spokesman, described the plans as “
Every year, scores of techies join huge crowds at Burning Man, an eight-day festival in the Nevada desert celebrating self-expression and community (and less reputable things). But the global movement against sexual harassment and assault is reshaping its sexually charged atmosphere. Consent is now one of the gathering’s guiding principles.
The Reno Gazette Journal says 
■ An I.P.O. of Alibaba’s Ant Financial is said to be delayed until at least the end of next year. (
■ Farfetch, an online luxury retailer, filed to go public. (
■ Tyson agreed to buy Keystone Foods, a top meat supplier for McDonald’s, for $2.16 billion. (
■ One Medical, an American primary care company, is reportedly close to a $200 million investment from the Carlyle Group. (
■ Russian hackers appear to be targeting anti-Trump conservative think tanks. (
■ The head of Russia’s central bank serves two sometimes conflicting masters: the economy, and Vladimir Putin. (
■ How London could remain a financial hub after Brexit. (
■ The Silicon Valley titans pushing money into the midterm elections. (
■ How cryptocurrency investors are coping after the digital currency boom. (
■ Microsoft’s C.E.O., Satya Nadella, says the tech industry should expect regulation. (
■ The U.S. government is reportedly trying to make Facebook break Messenger’s encryption to aid a criminal investigation. (
■ It’s almost impossible to avoid Google’s data collection. (
■ The S.E.C. charged Mike Rothenberg, disgraced venture capitalist, with misappropriating funds and barred him from the industry for five years. (
■ The Wall Street regulator Finra fined Interactive Brokers $5.5 million for violating rules on “naked” short-selling. (
■ Eight more fast-food chains, like IHOP, agreed to end no-poach policies for employees. (
■ Your contact lenses are polluting waterways. (