
Bruno Munari (1907-1998) came of age at a turbulent time in Italian history. Heavily influenced by Futurism, he pulled away from that group in the 1930s as its leaders increasingly embraced fascism — but the association dogged his international career. This might explain partly why 
A series of solemn black-and-white photographs from Munari’s early years near the entrance depict workers at their machines and demonstrate him working — if not explicitly, then perhaps, tacitly — to show the industrial progressiveness of Italy under Benito Mussolini. Beyond that, the objects get more witty, imaginative, experimental and colorful. Paintings from this period and collages show the influence of Cubism and Futurism. Later ones, from the ’70s and ’80s, are brightly colored and elegantly composed geometric abstractions. Sculptures particularly reveal Munari’s polymathic approach: The echoes of architecture resound in his abstract geometric sculptures on pedestals from the ’50s and ’60s, and a chair from the ’80s with a precipitously slanting seat announces itself as an objet d’art rather than a functional one.
Munari was clearly more of a designer than a conceptualist (he designed everything from espresso machines to televisions), but he could slide into Dada- or Surrealist-inspired playfulness, as in a fork with curled up tines or two small sculptures that play off Marcel Duchamp’s transparent “Large Glass.” One more thing: the exhibition here comes primarily from the collection of Munari’s dentist, whom he met in the 1950s. At a moment when uber-wealthy collectors get most of the publicity, making the art world feel like a plutocracy, it’s nice to be reminded that innovation, change and art itself can rest in the hands of more ordinary people. 
Who gets to narrate history? Who gets to represent whom? These questions have been roiling the American art world lately, but they are nothing new in Australia — especially in regard to its indigenous population, 
There’s a strong harmony of style (dots) and color (reds and purples) across this show, yet even those encountering indigenous Australian painting for the first time will feel that 
They may have superficial resemblances to the painting of Yayoi Kusama or (heaven help us) Damien Hirst, yet the essential point here is that these are not abstractions: Their allover compositions of dots and squiggles represent lands, dreams, and stories, revealing that in indigenous Australia the difference between representation and abstraction is inconsequential. That’s especially evident in a recent suite of paintings by Gabriella Possum Nungurrayi, entitled “Grandmother’s Country,” in which the allover pattern is interrupted by horseshoe shapes or running rivers of dots — a bird’s-eye view of the landscape expressing a continued claim of territorial sovereignty. (“Country,” in Aboriginal Australian English, refers to the nexus of land, laws and ancestry to which a particular person has rights.)
It was only in the 1970s that indigenous Australians began to paint with Western materials. For them, contemporary art serves not only as a means of expression but also an economic stimulus: Most of the artists here come from 
I haven’t seen anyone capture our current state of disconnect better than Josh Kline does in “
In the back room, three treatments of our fractured and volatile political conversation combine into something between an epiphany and a punch in the gut. Liz Magic Laser’s video “Primal Speech” focuses on actors venting about Trump, the European Union, and Brexit, while Paul Chan’s sculpture “Dimposium,” made of two electric fans and two loosely figurative white windsocks attached by their “arms,” performs an endless frantic dance.
Mr. Kline’s own probing video interviews with a politically conscious waitress at a Baltimore Applebee’s and a checked-out bartender in the same city seem the most literal. But when you reflect on how adeptly they’re edited to appeal to liberal expectations and biases, you find yourself in an inescapable vortex of paranoia. 
There’s something almost startlingly intimate about the tapestries in “Used Tape,” Erin M. Riley’s first solo show at P.P.O.W. A combination of still lifes and closely cropped self-portraits, all of which were hand-woven by the artist on a loom, evoke both the confessional nature of diary entries and the careful crafting of memoir.
Ms. Riley’s semi-naked body is a consistent presence, usually posing, masturbating, or menstruating. We never see her face but come to recognize her by her tattoos, which suggest another layer of investment in mediums historically dismissed as decorative. The still lifes feature objects that are simultaneously mundane and loaded with personal meaning, like ticket stubs, snapshots and birth control pills. Their perspective is best described as aerial, but the items seem to float as if suspended in time or memory.
Hints of trauma in the first room — an envelope marked “Violation,” a razor — become stronger in the second gallery with “Bruised Knees & a Sore Jaw in Hell 2” (2018), a semiabstract close-up of legs on which bruises cluster in pastel hues. The references turn explicit in the third gallery, with tapestries showing text from interviews and 911 calls about domestic violence. The blunt force of these works makes them less successful, with the exception of “Evidence” (2017), a stark, 11-foot-long display of the parts of a rape kit.
Ms. Riley successfully intertwines two strands of second-wave feminist art: the reclamation of so-called craft mediums and women’s use of their bodies. Into this she braids the distanced gaze of the still life. If the show has a thesis statement, it might be that for women, pain and pleasure remain perilously intertwined — a lesson that bears repeating in the time of #MeToo. 