
New Yorkers have a well-earned skepticism toward politicians’ promises. (Remember 
So when Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo announced on Monday that he wanted the state’s byzantine election laws revamped and (gasp!) made more voter-friendly, there was applause — and apprehension.
In his speech, Mr. Cuomo called for automatic voter registration, an ease on the restrictions to voting by mail, and an expansion in the number of days when people can vote. Thirty-eight other states already allow early voting. He even wants to make Election Day a state holiday.
“We’re very pleased,” Susan Lerner, executive director of the good-government group Common Cause, told The Times. But “the devil’s in the details,” she said.
Early voting needed to include “a minimum of two weekends, and some evening hours,” she said.
This would allow the most people to be able to get to the polls, she said: “Seniors, the young, communities that are often economically challenged, where people are working three or four jobs.”
Mr. Cuomo and his fellow Democrats will control the State Legislature starting next month, so something is likely to come of this, though some changes will require approval from voters.
Reform is certainly needed. In the city, last month’s election was 
So in the spirit of holiday gift-giving, tell me (and the lawmakers): What voting reforms would 
On Tuesday, State Senator Kevin Parker of Brooklyn, above, 
Then he 
Mr. Parker has a history of inflammatory behavior. For example:
That’s how many people were homeless in New York City at a point in time this past January, according to the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development, which conducts annual counts around the country.
That’s up about 3 percent from 2017. [hat tip to The Times’s 
If bling is your thing, head to a jewelry-making class at the 
Black female interior designers talk about how they made it in the industry at the 
The Literaryswag book club discusses Samantha Irby’s essay collection “We Are Never Meeting in Real Life” at 
“POP! A pop culture bingo party,” at 
Even in a city with some unusual cultural institutions (the Conjuring Arts Research Center, the Museum of the American Gangster), 
It consists of 2,500 out-of-print volumes, culled from thrift stores and discard bins, bursting with illustrations and diagrams both prosaic and puzzling.
The titles only hint at what’s inside: “Four-handed Dentistry in Clinical Practice,” “A Fruit is Born,” “A Study of Splashes,” “The Shocking Truth About Water: The Universal Fluid of Death.”
One illustration, from “Public Address and Sound Distribution Handbook” (1956) is displayed above. 
But now the 12-year-old library, which bills itself as a resource for “artists, writers and other cultural archaeologists,” needs a home.
It lost its latest space, in the back of Pioneer Books in Red Hook, and last week the library’s founder, Andrew Beccone, reluctantly moved the collection into storage.
So if you fancy yourself a patron of the arts and have a space big enough for 48 linear feet of books and scanners and a photocopier and you are looking to rent for very little, 
Dear Diary:
I was taking my usual route from Chelsea to Union Square on a Friday night. The light was dimming fast.
An older woman stopped me as I was approaching Fifth Avenue. It was clear that she wanted to ask me something. There was no way I was going to be able to avoid her.
My mind went into anticipatory overdrive: Did she want directions? Was she looking for a handout? Was she about to insult me?
“Can you give me a hand with the zipper at the back?” she said. “Once I get upstairs, I don’t know if I’d be able to get this off on my own.”
“Sure,” I said, a little surprised to be doing it in the middle of the sidewalk, but gripped the zipper on the back her shift and helped it down a couple of inches.