
LONDON — The protesters began assembling even before Air Force One touched down outside London on Thursday. They inflated a giant orange balloon depicting President Trump as a pouting baby, wearing a diaper and wielding a smartphone. They jeered as the helicopter Marine One took off to ferry Mr. Trump to a black-tie gala dinner outside Oxford with Prime Minister Theresa May.
Outside the dinner, at Blenheim Palace, where Churchill was born, a heavy police presence kept around 1,000 chanting demonstrators far away as Mr. Trump and Mrs. May, along with their spouses, were serenaded by trumpeters and other members of a military band.
Mr. Trump’s long-delayed first visit to Britain as president was supposed to cement ties with America’s closest ally, reassure a nation anxious over the chaotic process of exiting the European Union and give Mr. Trump a relaxing weekend in Scotland, where his mother was born and where he owns two golf courses.
But British protesters saw in the visit a chance to register their displeasure at Mr. Trump’s policies. The demonstrations will culminate in a march on Friday — with the baby balloon flying overhead — that is expected to be one of the nation’s largest rallies since the 2003 
“He needs to be called out,” said Harley Day, 23, a student who was among the protesters assembled in Regent’s Park in West London. “His bigotry, his sexism, his Islamophobia, his general xenophobia and crass inability to empathize.”
The demonstrators received 
“The special relationship means we speak out when the values we both hold dear seem under threat,” Mr. Khan 
Even as the president’s aides choreographed a visit designed to have Mr. Trump spend as little time as possible in London and to keep him out of sight of any protests, he seemed unfazed.
In an interview 
“I guess when they put out blimps to make me feel unwelcome, no reason for me to go to London,” the newspaper quoted him as saying. “I used to love London as a city. I haven’t been there in a long time. But when they make you feel unwelcome, why would I stay there?”
Mrs. May angered many Britons with her diplomatic overtures to Mr. Trump, including a White House meeting at which he clasped her hands, and he has shown little regard for her. He stoked outrage in Britain and earned a sharp rebuke from Mrs. May last November when he recirculated anti-Islam videos from the far-right group Britain First. And in the 
The awkwardness may hang over Mr. Trump’s plan to meet with Queen Elizabeth II. He is scheduled to have tea with the queen on Friday.
Critics of Mr. Trump on both sides of the Atlantic have called the meeting an indignity for the monarch, who has met every president since Harry S. Truman, save for Lyndon B. Johnson. “Imagine her revulsion and sadness when her dignity is assaulted by the presence of an American President who represents a spectacular degeneracy of the virtues she embodies,” Steve Schmidt, who advised John McCain’s 2008 presidential campaign and recently left the Republican Party, 
More than 50 British organizations are involved in the protests, which aim to dog the president at nearly every stop of his visit.
“There has never been a president as bad as Donald Trump,” John Rees, a leader of a group called the Stop War Coalition, said in Regent’s Park, where protesters thronged outside metal barriers as men in suits, wearing sunglasses and earpieces, stared back silently.
“The man is a wrecking ball!” Mr. Reed shouted. (“He’s a criminal!” the crowd shouted back.) “He’s a wrecking ball for peace and justice in the world!” (“’Cause all he cares about is money!” they replied.)
The protests outside Blenheim Palace continued even as Mr. Trump, Mrs. May and around 150 guests dined on Scottish salmon, Hereford beef fillet and strawberries with clotted-cream ice cream. Mr. Trump and Philip May, the prime minister’s husband, wore tuxedos, while Mrs. May wore a sleeveless red gown, and Melania Trump, the first lady, wore a pleated pale yellow gown.
On Thursday evening, Together Against Trump, an umbrella organization, planned a “wall of sound,” with a relentless stream of slogans, whistles, banging of pots and drums to disrupt the visit, even though they were kept sufficiently far away from Winfield House, the ambassador’s residence, to make it difficult to keep the president awake.
Kate Gartside, a screenwriter, said she would continue to protest “until I get hungry, which could be midnight.”
She added: “I’m here to show this monster that we really don’t like him. He’s against everything we feel is good about humanity.”
Mr. Khan, the mayor, has endorsed the march.
“Londoners have always chosen hope over fear, unity over division, and have approached challenges with optimism rather than despair,” Mr. Khan 
Owen Jones, a left-wing journalist and lead organizer of Britain’s “Stop Trump” protests, said on Wednesday: “We need to show that we abhor everything that Trump represents: the bigotry, racism, anti-Muslim prejudice and misogyny.”
On Friday morning, some protesters plan to follow Mr. Trump to Chequers, the country house of the prime minister, where he and Mrs. May will hold talks on security and trade issues.
The main demonstration, “Together Against Trump,” is planned in London for 2 p.m. on Friday, with the giant balloon. Muslim groups also plan to march in protest after Friday Prayer. The police expect 
On Saturday, supporters plan to march from the United States Embassy to Whitehall, where government offices, including those of the prime minister, are concentrated. The 
At Windsor Castle, west of London, where Mr. Trump and his wife are to meet Queen Elizabeth II, protests are expected. The president and the first lady will then travel to the Trump Turnberry golf resort in Scotland, where they will spend the weekend. But it will hardly be peaceful.
“Donald Trump is not welcome here,” the Scottish Labour and Scottish Green parties said in a statement. “The horrific scenes at the Mexican border are a repudiation of decent human values. Caging children like animals is barbaric. We cannot roll out the red carpet for a U.S. president that treats human beings this way.”