
President Trump’s trade war is beginning to have a material impact on American businesses — but his White House can’t seem to agree on what its next play should be.
Harley-Davidson said yesterday that it would 
So it seems American companies 
Others may be taking trade war more seriously now, too. The financial markets, which had shrugged off the threat, 
The Trump administration appears torn about what happens next. A top trade adviser, Peter Navarro, 
President Xi Jinping of China, on the other hand, seems to know his mind. He is said to be telling C.E.O.s that he’s 
_
The venture capital firm has created a 
But the so-called A16z Crypto fund faces a struggle. Cryptocurrencies have plummeted in value this year, and critics still fiercely debate their worth. The latest doubter: Alibaba’s Jack Ma, who has warned that 
None of that worries Chris Dixon, another Andreessen partner coleading the fund. He told our colleague Nathaniel Popper:
“The prices got ahead of the genuine innovation. The metric I look at is: Are there great entrepreneurs coming in and building great projects? On that metric I think the space is in a really strong place.”
There’s a popular narrative about robots: They’re coming for your job! But with unemployment at its lowest in years, is that right?
In a report about robots in fast-food restaurants, the 
More from Julie Jargon and Eric Morath:
Automation improves consistency, shaves time off tasks, and may help ease the incessant turnover that crimps productivity and staffing across the industry. Alexandra Guajardo, the morning shift leader at a Dunkin’ Donuts shop in Corona, Calif. said she’s likely to stick with the job longer now than she otherwise would have.
Other industries have similar problems. 
The Supreme Court ruled yesterday that American Express 
Conservative justices are making it harder for the federal government to use antitrust laws to regulate big business. The Justice Department already failed to block AT&T’s bid to buy Time Warner, and regulators now have another antitrust loss on their hands. 
If the court becomes more conservative, with the confirmation of justices appointed by President Donald Trump, we are likely to see less and less successful use of antitrust law against big companies.
The telecom giant bought HBO and the Turner cable channels to get into content. But its next ambition, as shown by its deal to buy the ad tech company AppNexus, is to become a force in advertising. By creating a market for ads across TV and video platforms, it could pit itself against the leaders in digital advertising — Facebook and Google.
More from Lara O’Reilly of 
Several Madison Avenue executives gave a thumbs-up to the deal after reports it was in the works surfaced, predicting it could offer them more choices in the digital ad market. Google took a 31.7 percent share of the $232.27 billion spent globally on digital advertising last year, according to eMarketer, while Facebook took a 17.9 percent share.
When Britain voted to leave the European Union in June 2016, public polls were mostly predicting a vote to remain. But 
More from Cam Simpson, Gavin Finch, and Kit Chellel:
Pollsters sold hedge funds critical, advance information, including data that would have been illegal for them to give the public. Some hedge funds gained confidence, through private exit polls, that most Britons had voted to leave the E.U., or that the vote was far closer than the public believed — knowledge pollsters provided while voting was still underway and hours ahead of official tallies. These hedge funds were in the perfect position to earn fortunes by short-selling the British pound.
Morgan Stanley has hired 
Perella Weinberg Partners has hired 
HSBC has hired 
• Blackstone is said to be nearing the first close of its long-awaited infrastructure fund, 
• How hedge funds are seeking profit from personal-injury lawsuits. (
• Jerry Storch, the former C.E.O. of Toys “R” Us, is reportedly assembling investors to help him bid for the fallen retailer. (
• Eight big tech companies — including Facebook, Apple and Google — discussed preparations for the midterm elections with U.S. intelligence officials last month. (
• How Trump advisers under investigation by the special counsel are paying their legal bills: GoFundMe pages and a political action committee. (
• Amid growing concern about Amazon selling facial recognition technology to law enforcement, Orlando’s police department said it would 
• Bloomberg Intelligence estimates that if Instagram were a stand-alone company, it would be worth more than $100 billion. (
• The E.U. is working with e-commerce companies like Amazon and eBay to block the sale of dangerous goods. (
• The new tax form fits on a postcard. But it’s more complicated than ever. (
• Delaware, a hub for shell companies, is backing an effort to put them under the jurisdiction of the federal government. (
• Wall Street’s potential new food obsession: a $185 Wagyu steak sandwich. (