
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning,
We start with 
President Vladimir Putin, giving an annual speech today, 
Russia’s support of Mr. Assad has put it on the opposite side of the Syrian conflict from the U.S. 
Senators 
The bill is expected to pass the House today and to be sent to Mr. Trump before the deadline of midnight Friday. It was unclear, however, if the president would sign the measure, which doesn’t include the $5 billion he has demanded for a wall.
The Federal Reserve 
The benchmark rate will now sit in a range of 2.25 percent to 2.5 percent, near the lower end of what the central bank considers the neutral zone, in which rates neither stimulate nor restrain the economy.
President Trump has repeatedly urged the central bank to keep rates low.
The Roman Catholic Church in the state withheld the names of at least 500 priests who were accused of the sexual abuse of minors, 
The report by Attorney General Lisa Madigan said 690 priests had been accused of abuse, but only 185 names were made public.
Dr. W. Melvin Brown III is a native of Charleston, S.C., a military veteran who served two tours in Afghanistan, an emergency-room doctor and a family man. 
But the African-American couldn’t break the barrier of a social club founded a few years before the Civil War. 
We also have tips on 
Clare Macdonald, a reader from Keene, N.H., asked us when electric lights were first used on a Christmas tree.
Eighty walnut-size red, white and blue bulbs covered the tree, which sat on a revolving box. A newspaper article described it: “As the tree turned, the colors alternated, all the lamps going out and being relit at every revolution. The result was a continuous twinkling of dancing colors, red, white, blue, white, red, blue, all evening.”
President Grover Cleveland popularized electric Christmas lights in the 1890s by 
But it wasn’t until (relatively) inexpensive 
That’s it for Thursday’s briefing. If, like Clare, you have an idea for a Back Story, 
See you next time.
— Chris