
Law enforcement officials found 
None of the explosives have harmed anyone so far, and it’s unclear who is behind them. But they have sent shock through the nation’s political and news media establishments.
Investigators are focusing on southern Florida, where it is believed some of the packages originated.
Here’s what 
Mr. Trump first condemned the attempted attacks and called for unity. But he was soon back to 
And a conspiracy theory blaming leftists for the bombs jumped to the mainstream from the fringe with unusual speed, 
_____
Central European University, founded in 1991 as a bastion for liberal values, says it has 
The government has made the university a symbol of one of the men who helped build it, the Hungarian-born billionaire George Soros, who was also a 
Above, an anti-Soros campaign poster in Budapest.
The university says it still hopes for a last-minute deal but otherwise will have to shut down the campus.
_____
That’s the task of Bent Rasmussen, who’s in charge of building 
The disease is harmless to people but potentially devastating in domestic pigs and the wild boars that might spread it.
Critics say the fence could hurt wildlife, be misused against refugees or violate the E.U. ethos of free movement. There are also questions about whether the fence would even work.
In other pig news, a rare breed of swine in China could be 
_____
Reflecting growing environmental concerns, the European Parliament voted overwhelmingly to 
The ban must still be approved by the E.U.’s member states. Above, volunteers cleaning up waste in London.
_____
Bill Richmond, who was born a slave in the U.S. in 1763 but spent most of his life in Britain, has been called the 
For Mr. Richmond’s fans, this is a big moment. “I want more people to know his story,” his biographer said.
Emily Post, the longtime authority on etiquette in American life, was born on Oct. 27, 1872, 
Although Mrs. Post, above, addressed questions about champagne flutes and special forks, 
Her book “Etiquette” was published in 1922. It’s on its 
So is Mrs. Post still relevant? Philip Galanes, 
Her advice was meant to help people be comfortable behaving in a social sphere that wasn’t their own, something we can still use in today’s world, Mr. Galanes said.
“She was holding out the fantasy of a lot more social mobility. It was important to her that we be armed with a way to behave,” he said. “A lot of the things she’s writing about seem so antique, because the Duchess of Sussex is not inviting us to tea.”
But if you 