
In politics, enemies are easier to quarrel with than friends. An opponent disagreeing with you is business as usual. Dissent from someone you expected to be on your side can prove a lot more volatile.
Formal alliances have methods of reining in such tensions. In June, when President Trump unexpectedly canceled military exercises with South Korea, Jim Mattis, the secretary of defense, set to work reassuring partners in the region, standing beside Japan’s minister of defense to affirm that “our commitment to this alliance remains ironclad.” And after Trump suggested in an interview this month that the British prime minister, Theresa May, had “wrecked” Brexit, May shelved any resentment she might have held to appear at a joint news conference with the president the next day and declare that her plan would be “very good for both of our countries.”
In less formal partnerships, though, tensions tend to escalate. Earlier this year, on the same March day that students led an almost million-strong demonstration against gun violence, the Atlanta musician Killer Mike found himself at odds with his fellow progressives. There had been a sizable backlash over an interview he did with the N.R.A.’s broadcast channel; suddenly the Bernie Sanders campaigner was trying to defend his pro-gun stance while conveying that he nevertheless supported the protesters. “I can be an ally and disagree,” he tweeted. A day later he apologized for the way the N.R.A. had presented the interview — deploying his comments on black gun ownership as a “weapon” against the march — but still insisted that he could assert his individual interests without betraying his political peers. “Some of our nuances are subtly different than allies we have,” he said. He was met, for the most part, with derision.
As “ally” has become a widely used honorific, these kinds of significant fractures have become more common. When the New York gubernatorial candidate Cynthia Nixon described prioritizing marijuana licenses in minority communities as a “form of reparations,” black leaders accused her of playing into stereotypes and diminishing the legacy of slavery — despite her argument that those communities had long been overpoliced for an offense that was now becoming a lucrative legal industry. Ever since making a clumsy statement about the differing experiences of transgender women and cisgender women, the author Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie has sometimes been disparaged as a TERF, or “trans-exclusionary radical feminist.” (Clarifying her views doesn’t seem to have helped.) Progressive stances from Kamala Harris, the progressive California senator, are regularly met from the left by the phrase “Kamala Harris is a cop,” a reference to her record as a district attorney and state attorney general.
It’s normal for political figures to stand on shifting ground, but there’s something in the transgressions and blemishes of so-called allies that’s seen as a special betrayal. An ally, it seems, is no longer just a mutually interested party or a strategic partner; the label now often connotes an unspecified but steadfast loyalty, a commitment to the allyship itself, rather than to any shared cause.
Today’s meaning of “ally” has roots in the political movements of the ’60s and ’70s. After years of working in parallel, some identity-based political organizations began confronting their more influential counterparts, groups that shared their general politics but lacked their specific perspectives. Black Panthers pressed the largely white Students for a Democratic Society; Lesbian Feminist Liberation pressed the male-dominated Gay Activists Alliance. In many cases, these larger groups recalibrated their platforms and priorities, conceding resources to their colleagues. In a sense, they renegotiated the terms of their alliances.
By the early ’90s, though, such negotiations had become less about tactics and more matters of self-guided principle. “Beyond Tolerance,” a 1991 manual published by the American College Personnel Association, dedicated a chapter to outlining best practices for “becoming an ally” to lesbian, gay and bisexual university students — that is, becoming “a member of the ‘dominant’ or ‘majority’ group who works to end oppression in his or her personal and professional life through support of, and as an advocate with and for, the oppressed population.” Where previous allies might quarrel over aims and strategies and come to an agreement (or a stalemate), the allies envisioned in “Beyond Tolerance” would presume a mutual understanding — and look to the oppressed group for guidance.
Allies had gone from haggling to sharing a currency. In theory, this is a useful development: For activists, it means expecting allies to understand your needs and reliably support your positions rather than having to continually explain yourself to people who are meant to be helping. In practice, though, this drift toward vague, unspoken standards can muddle the whole point of alliances. You can see this in the gradual adoption of the term “allyship.” Alliances are purposeful, clear and often explicitly named; allyships are informal, unbound by explicit parameters or goals or even participants. Their work is unending and unclear. Instructions like “listen to women” and “support people of color” are common directions, while actual methods and tactics go unmentioned. Allyship transforms what could be concrete and pragmatic into a strange ballet of omissions: The first rule of allyship is that you should not have to talk about allyship.
This distrust stems not just from how easy it can be to claim allyship but from how much praise is sometimes bestowed upon it. When Senator John McCain significantly sided with Democrats in a 2017 health care vote, for instance, some liberals cheered him as a hero — despite his long record of disparaging the Affordable Care Act. Tim Wise, on the other hand, the author of the books “White Like Me” and “Dear White America,” has become a bit of a pariah among race scholars, because his anti-racist research is shared and acclaimed far more widely than similar work by scholars of color. Allies are presumed to share beliefs, goals, experiences and risks; rewards somehow never circulate as freely.
This is what happens when allyship is defined as an unspoken familiarity, a tacit, nonnegotiated bond. It’s what happens when strangers try to treat one another as something other than strangers. With strangers, after all, we know that we will have to express ourselves and our beliefs, and they will have to express theirs — and real communication can take place about where everyone’s goals intersect.
This communication isn’t always pretty, and the coalitions it forms can be uncomfortable ones. The American right has managed to make factions of nationalists, evangelicals, deficit hawks, internet trolls and deregulators congeal far better than would be expected, largely unimpeded by these groups’ vast differences. It is hard to believe that these groups trust one another, but that is precisely where the value of an alliance lies: It forces you to state your interests explicitly and locate the places where they overlap with those of people you may not otherwise care for. (Say, a Supreme Court appointment.)
“Allyship” seeks to correct that distrust, emphasizing intimacy as the foundation of a working partnership. This approach is, in so many cases, worthwhile and productive. But intimacy is not just a performative passing of the microphone or a winking flash of solidarity — wearing the right hat, using the right buzzword, displaying the symbolic safety pin. It is a form of recognition, of shared interests, of varied dispositions, of work to be done, together.