
What’s the opposite of a palate cleanser? Currently, Cardi B is featured on the No. 1 song in the country, Maroon 5’s 
Lauren Jauregui’s starter single following the disbandment of Fifth Harmony earlier this year is a casually bluesy R&B smolderer. Always an impressive singer — dating back to her “
Perhaps it was inevitable that country would connect with electronic dance music; they share major chords and a foot-stomping beat. Maggie Rogers makes this commercial merger graceful in “Light On,” an are-we-breaking-up song that allows for a second chance but doesn’t beg for it — she’s dancing anyway. JON PARELES
Here’s a bummed-out Brexit song from Damon Albarn and his supergroup, the Good, the Bad & the Queen, with Paul Simonon from the Clash, Simon Tong from the Verve and Tony Allen, the great drummer from Fela Anikulapo Kuti’s Afrobeat bands. The song is glum and pragmatic, unfolding over a six-beat rhythm and minor-chord keyboards. “I love this country,” Albarn sings, while he clearly sees the gap between the prosperous and those who were left behind: “Are we green, are we pleasant?/We are not.” PARELES
Tyler, the Creator arrived years ago as a provocateur and rapscallion, but his hero and lodestar has always been Pharrell Williams, the master of simultaneous soothing and thumping. Add in Tyler’s adoration of classic film scores, and a logical evolutionary step becomes clear: making music for an animated film. He is producing several original songs for the soundtrack of “The Grinch” — the update of “How the Grinch Stole Christmas” — but first comes this cover of “You’re a Mean One, Mr. Grinch.” The original is loopy and weird, and Tyler distends it further, bellowing its eccentric lyrics — “You’re a bad banana/with a greasy black peeeel” — while behind him, a chorus of cuddly children sings sweetly about gruesome things: “You have garlic! In! Your soul!” CARAMANICA
The composer and singer Julia Holter’s new album, “Aviary,” is a dense, knotty, cryptic collection that encompasses orchestral Minimalism, drum machines, medieval troubadour songs, enigmatic piano ballads, labyrinthine electronics and more. Its most accessible entry point is “I Shall Love 2,” which sets up two alternating chords and a mechanical beat and calmly declares, “I am in love/What can I do?” It builds from there, with a wordless melody, gusts of string orchestra, an improvisational double bass and a stately, steadily expanding brass section; its video shows her literally falling, again and again. By the time a choir of Holter’s voice gathers to proclaim, “I shall love,” bliss prevails. PARELES
For the drummer Makaya McCraven, beat-making isn’t necessarily a solitary activity, and jazz doesn’t have to be created entirely live. Over the past few years he has developed a way of making earthy, coagulated, hypercharged music by capturing live jams on tape, then reconstructing them in the studio. He recorded “Universal Beings,” a new double album, playing with different ensembles at small concerts in four different cities. “Voila” is one of five tracks recorded in London with the tenor saxophonist Nubya Garcia, the keyboardist Ashley Henry and the bassist Daniel Casimir, all young musicians based there. It centers on McCraven’s heavy cymbal playing, a signature; a subtle but stubborn harmonic pattern; and Garcia’s distant saxophone. GIOVANNI RUSSONELLO
Over five albums since 2009, Laura Gibson has steadily and ambitiously expanded both her music and lyrics, from folky to surreal, spooky and allegorical. “Domestication” is on her new album, “Goners,” which uses the resources of chamber pop and electronics to explore grief and self-creation. The song has a looped beat, multitracked vocal harmonies and a dramatically sliding, Bollywood-tinged string section. “I was born a wolf in woman’s clothes,” she sings. “You saw my hunger, called it tenderness.” It’s about longing and instinct, and whether they can ever converge. PARELES
“Think of something you’ve seen breaking down,” Helena Deland sings in “A Stone Is a Stone,” from the not-quite-an-album, “Altogether Unaccompanied,” that she has called a “series of songs” and began releasing bit by bit in the spring. The songs are by no means a cappella; this one starts as a lo-fi waltz and gathers a full folk-rock band. She sings about knowledge and disorientation, discord and reconciliation; the music tells the same story. PARELES
The country singer Mitchell Tenpenny has a growing hit with 
This week, the Miami-Dade County state attorney’s office 
This pianist’s music tends to be dark and deep, almost dissolved in itself: He uses elements of Cuban folklore, Western classical and avant-garde improvisation to 