
FROM RICK OWENS’S ragged T-shirts and 
So, what is it with fashion at the moment? Designers appear to have assumed a fight-or-flight response to these uncertain times, which, to some — especially those with a flair for the dramatic — look a lot like the end of days. “Fashion is a reflection of the way we live,” said Gvasalia backstage at Balenciaga. “I wanted to create a feeling that something dangerous was going to happen.” He was talking, specifically, about the sturm-und-drang mood at his show, which took place in a blacked-out venue filled with smoke and the boom of ominous trip hop music. The message was less “apocalypse now” and more “apocalypse soon.”
Art, literature and film frequently tackle themes of end-of-the-world-as-we-know-it destruction — in 2017 alone, there was 
YET THIS SPRING’S fashions, more than in any era in living memory, seem inextricably linked to the times in which we live. They are hysterical, scatterbrained and lunging toward extreme opposites (glittery at Gucci, wasteland-era at Rick Owens) just as global political parties have become more polarized themselves. The collections telegraph post-national, post-history and post-internet ideas — all of which bear individual examination. The post-national is, perhaps, the easiest to connect to culture’s current fixations: Eschewing borders as various governments seek to enforce them, fashion is, in a sense, evoking an aesthetic idyll, a leftist liberal dream in step with most fashion designers’ sensibilities. The post-nationalism of fashion has emerged perhaps in response to the rise of the right wing — not only across America, but in much of Europe, too, where the notion of patriotism has been used as a Trojan Horse for prejudice and white supremacy.
Equally, post-nationalism is a reaction to the ongoing furor around perceived cultural appropriation — when even a hairstyle can 
As the line between true and false and right and wrong becomes disorientingly blurred, designers are challenging other norms — including the purpose of clothing itself. Mutated hybrids are emerging, the most extreme being Balenciaga’s propositions of entirely separate garments — like denim jackets and trenches or opera coats and padded construction worker’s vests — conjoined at the neck, leaving one or the other flapping over the front or flank, or Phoebe Philo’s two-in-one trench coats 
At Maison Margiela, John Galliano 
Walter Bradford Cannon, the physiologist who first coined the term “fight or flight,” observed that fear was the motivation for the latter and rage for the former — although both could be triggered by the same event. That seems to be the instinct of designers, too, caught (as are all of us) between fear for survival (of humanity, of themselves, or maybe just of their business) and raging against the machine. Rick Owens characterized his show as “a gesture of turning away from threat, not really as escapism, but as rejection.” Others were rather more fantastic — Alessandro Michele’s Milanese Gucci show, for instance, with its gang of rootless rebels in glittering neo-folkloric dress traipsing a runway reimagined as a fabulist map of artifacts from the ancient world. (In reality, they were fakes shipped from the Cinecittà film studios in Rome.) Fight or flight, or fatalist versus fabulist, is the season’s key message.
But how can you run from — or fight — an apocalypse? Apocalypse evokes the notion of worlds falling apart in spectacular, high Hollywood fashion — a flood, an asteroid, and existence being wiped out. Judgment Day. But perhaps the apocalypse we are approaching is, to a degree, a destruction of worlds rather than 
Owens cited the Italian poet and activist Filippo Tommaso Marinetti’s “Manifesto of Futurism,” written in 1909, as an inspiration for his show. “There are a few unfortunate attitudes in this manifesto regarding women and book burning,” he said with his typical deadpan candor. “But what’s fascinating about radical utopian movements is that they start with the best intentions but then degenerate and crumble. Until the next wave of hope appears over the horizon.”