
This was the year populists made real efforts to challenge the economic consensus that has set the terms of the global economy for decades.
How are they doing?
It’s a mixed bag. President Trump’s trade war achieved some gains but has yet to deliver the type of change many populists have called for, like a rollback of China’s interventionist industrial policies. Britain’s plan to leave the European Union has not made it through the country’s Parliament. But Italy’s populist government this week reached a fiscal deal with the European Union that appears to be a slight win for the country. And some of the populists’ economic ideas appear to be gaining ground.
Populists have long contended that the global system of free trade hurt the livelihoods of many American workers. Mr. Trump’s trade war showed that it was not easy to force big changes in the arrangements that underpin the flow of trillions of dollars of trade.
Mr. Trump has yet to bag anything big, like a credible commitment from China that 
The Trump administration began by imposing tariffs on countries to force them to agree to his demands. But that confrontational strategy did not press China or the European Union to surrender. Instead, the Trump administration struck truces with China and the European Union and got mild concessions from other countries.
The recent declines in the stock market, and the Republican loss of the House of Representatives most likely played a big role in persuading the administration to opt for détente.
Still, the United States did win 
On the battlefield of ideas, Mr. Trump’s trade war has helped increase skepticism about free trade. Congress did not mount much resistance to his trade policy. And the most recent 
After 
Italy’s case was helped by developments in France, where President Emmanuel Macron recently 
Populism would face a big defeat if Britain ends up staying in the European Union after it voted to leave in 2016. Prime Minister Theresa May’s government 
Several possible paths lie ahead. Britain could leave the European Union without a deal, an outcome some populists might favor. Perhaps more likely, Parliament, fearing an economic crash, would vote for Mrs. May’s deal or a similar deal that ties Britain closer to the bloc. And the probability of a second referendum, in which voters may be asked if they still want to leave, continues to rise.
Even if voters opted to remain in the European Union, the furor that might arise from holding a second vote could fuel populism in Britain for years to come.