
[
“Dirty deeds.” “Agreed and conspired.” And payoffs in “cooperation, consultation and concert” with President Trump’s campaign.
This week couldn’t have gone any better for Democrats if they’d scripted it themselves. Let’s recap, shall we?
The president’s longtime personal lawyer was 
Then there was the televised meeting with Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer that concluded with the president vowing to take the blame for a looming government shutdown. And how could we forget Ms. Pelosi 
“Is Trump doomed?” 
So, yes, Democrats are right to feel good this week. But sometimes, in politics, feeling too good can cause the worst falls.
In exactly three weeks, Democrats will get their first taste of real power in the Trump era when they retake control of the House. And a whole lot of them are itching for payback.
That’s a dangerous approach for the party, says former Representative Henry Waxman, a California Democrat once dubbed the “
“I don’t think they should be moving to impeachment right away,” he told me this week. “If they’re going to get there they have to get all the facts first.”
He added: “Democrats should pursue the facts and not get ahead of the facts.”
Mr. Waxman isn’t alone in urging some prudence when it comes to investigations. Last week, a group of incoming House freshmen 
But the pent-up energy within the party for taking on Mr. Trump is inescapable.
Various Democratic politicians want to investigate the president’s financial deals, his business ties to Russia, his handling of Saudi Arabia and North Korea, his efforts to undercut the special counsel investigation, his children’s business and political affairs, and a long list of agencies and cabinet secretaries. And earlier today, Ms. Pelosi said that a House committee would take the “first steps” toward getting Mr. Trump’s tax returns next year.
And while House Democratic leaders and committee chairs are saying that impeachment must wait until the special counsel issues his report, they’re already under tremendous pressure from their base to move forward. 
But impeachment carries its own risks: The process is not only difficult, particularly when control of Congress is split, but politically treacherous.
Successfully impeaching a president begins with an investigation by the House Judiciary Committee, which draws up articles of impeachment. Those require support from a majority of the House and two-thirds of the Senate. Few politicians want to be the Republican who votes to impeach Mr. Trump only to see the effort fall short.
As Representative Jerrold Nadler, the incoming Democratic chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, put it on CNN this weekend, there’s a difference between 
Sarah: It depends what you mean by “O.K.” Britain has not exploded, burst into flames or slid into the sea as part of a giant mudslide, but the Brexit process has been a chaotic mess, a combination of farce and tragedy underpinned by fear and ignorance. Nobody likes the Prime Minister’s carefully negotiated plan for how the country might extricate itself from the European Union, but there is no Plan B — and without one in place by the March deadline, Britain would end up departing under far worse terms than anyone can really conceive of.
Those things are all true. Mrs. May is still prime minister, but has promised to step down before the next election. (If I were her, I personally would not be able to get out of there fast enough.) She is trying to see what concessions she might extract from E.U. leaders, who are in no mood to grant any concessions at all. Pro-Brexit forces would like a tougher deal; anti-Brexit forces would prefer that the whole thing just went away.
It is conceivable that, as former Prime Minister John Major (a Tory, like Mrs. May and her enemies from the right, FWIW) argued earlier this week, Britain could simply “stop the clock” on Brexit while it figures out what to do next, but no one knows how that would really work. Could there be a second referendum in which Britons could decide that, on second thought, they would prefer not to have Brexit? Maybe, but no one knows how that would really work, either.
People in the U.K. are, variously, dumbfounded, flabbergasted, angry, scared and fed up. Some are stockpiling food and medicine in case a no-deal Brexit messes up import and export structures. Businesses — and Europeans — in Britain are not sure what this will mean for them. The pound has been steadily falling against the dollar. It is winter, which means it is very dark, the weather is bad, and a thin blanket of alarm and dispiritedness has fallen over the country.
The lesson for any country is, Don’t allow voters to make major foreign- and trade-policy decisions through ill-conceived popular referendums unless you are absolutely sure of the consequences.
[
A 12-year-old boy lost his best friend to a devastating illness. Then 
I’m not crying, you’re crying.