
The toll 
Indonesia straddles several tectonic plates and is highly prone to natural disasters. Since the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami that claimed around 230,000 lives across 14 countries, Indonesia has tried to upgrade its disaster response system.
But the latest disaster has raised questions about the country’s efforts: no warning siren was sounded before the wave hit the island and none of the 22 buoys at sea monitoring for tsunamis were functional.
_____
On Friday, Senator Jeff Flake initially said he’d vote to advance Judge Brett Kavanaugh’s Supreme Court nomination.
Then, after being confronted by two women and mounting pressure from his colleagues, the Republican from Arizona asked to 
Democrats 
The F.B.I. will question 
We also 
_____
The government has detained several dozen young activists, many of them 
The twist? The activists, above, are all well versed in the Communist Party’s values and have been campaigning for economic equality — a major pillar of the party’s own ideology.
The crackdown on young communists is one of many steps by Chinese leaders to manage growing domestic unease, especially as the country heads into the throes of an economic slowdown.
The government recently 
Separately, China 
_____
Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, Myanmar’s civilian leader and a Nobel Peace Prize laureate, above, was once hailed as a beacon of hope who would steer the country away from decades of military rule and into a stable democracy.
Instead, she has turned a blind eye as the military has persecuted Rohingya Muslims, suppressed freedom of speech and done little to advance women’s rights.
“Rarely has the reputation of a leader fallen so far, so fast,” said a recent report from the International Crisis Group.
Our reporter charts Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi’s 
_____
In South Africa, about 
Many of the targets are members of the African National Congress who have spoken out against corruption, imperiling Nelson Mandela’s dream of a unified, democratic nation. Above, the outskirts of Umzimkhulu town center where a prominent politician critical of party officials was killed.
“It is the very antithesis of democracy,” said one expert.
In Senegal, fat, sprawling baobab trees that have towered over the West African country for thousands of years are being 
“Whenever you see a baobab that has fallen down, you’re sad,” said one local.
_____
“The park is a paradise that makes even the loss of Eden seem insignificant,”
He was describing Yosemite National Park, created today in 1890, in large part through his efforts.
Growing up in
His first glimpse of the Yosemite area, in 1868, transformed him. He roamed it endlessly. He called sheep set to graze there “hoofed locusts” for devouring the greenery. He worried about commercial exploitation and 
“Somehow most of these travelers seem to care but little for the glorious objects about them,” he wrote.