
The multi-hyphenate performing artist Donald Glover keeps threatening to retire his musical alter ego Childish Gambino — last year, he told the crowd at 
But first Mr. Glover will use the pseudonym for his biggest tour to date, with 19 shows in arenas across the country. New York City is the fifth stop on what may well be one of the most anticipated shows of the year, given Glover’s buzz not just in music — he scored another hit with the fiery video “
That resume suggests that Mr. Glover will be negotiating how to translate the album’s glossy funk grooves (and presumably some of his earlier work as a rapper) to an arena-sized crowd and deliver a holistic theatrical experience. Given that he’s received as a generational talent, the expectations couldn’t be higher. Hip-hop duo Rae Sremmurd will open the show. 
Danger. That’s the element of live performance that makes it worth getting off the couch and into a theater, where no matter how scripted the show, anything might happen. When the piece is a work in progress, it’s even more of an adrenaline charge.
That’s the lure that the glamorously well-manicured British multi-hyphenate 
Will it work better some nights than others? Probably; it isn’t done yet. But isn’t that part of the thrill? 
Juan (Gael García Bernal), a feckless, 30-something veterinary student still living with his well-off parents, is working a summer job at the national institute of anthropology in Mexico City when he is reprimanded for touching relics with his ungloved hands. So he does it again — because.
Soon he is plotting the Christmas Eve robbery of 140 Mayan and Aztec artifacts from the museum with his mopey classmate, Wilson (Leonardo Ortizgris), whose loyalty Juan tests by demanding that his friend shoot an arrow at a Rubik’s cube balanced on his head. Criminal masterminds they are not — and yet the heist of these priceless cultural artifacts is quickly assumed to be the work of a sophisticated trafficking ring, horrifying the country to its patriotic core. Juan’s doctor father (Alfredo Castro), whom his son is desperate to impress, proclaims the thieves “miserable bastards with no past nor future.”
 “Museo,” the Mexican director Alonso Ruizpalacios’s exhilarating and melancholic pins-and-needles thriller, opening Friday, Sept. 14, in New York before a national rollout, is based on the real-life 1985 heist at Mexico’s National Museum of Anthropology by two students too stupid to understand that their loot — a pantheon of tiny Mesoamerican gods — could never be sold. 
The eerily buzzing cluster chord that accompanies the title card of Paul Thomas Anderson’s “There Will Be Blood” portends the violence that suffuses the rest of the movie. Back in 2007, it announced the arrival of a major figure in film scoring: the composer and Radiohead member Jonny Greenwood. His avant-garde music made for an instant classic and facilitated a continuing collaboration between director and composer, including the Oscar-nominated score to Mr. Anderson’s “The Phantom Thread.”
The “Blood” soundtrack has also been championed by the upstart orchestra Wordless Music, which has regularly performed it live alongside the film, and this week that project moves to the establishment: the New York Philharmonic will accompany a screening of “There Will Be Blood” as part of its “Art of the Score” series. Recent performances have focused on obvious choices like “West Side Story,” “Amadeus,” and “On the Waterfront,” so it is heartening to see the Philharmonic move into more experimental terrain with Mr. Greenwood’s score and, later in the week, the Ligeti- and Strauss-infused music of Kubrick’s “2001: A Space Odyssey. 
More than four decades after the advent of “Monty Python” and “Fawlty Towers,” John Cleese has returned to BBC sitcoms with “Hold the Sunset” (his silly walk now cautious and supported by a cane). Mr. Cleese plays Phil opposite Alison Steadman’s Edith, suburban neighbors and longtime flames who decide to marry, sell their houses
The result — arriving Wednesday, Sept. 12, on the streaming service BritBox — isn’t nearly as funny as it could be, given Mr. Cleese’s considerable gifts. But his fans may relish “Sunset” simply for what it is: more to savor of the 78-year-old comedian, who has stated that he is leaving Britain in November for the Caribbean island of Nevis, in part because of frustration over Brexit, which he initially supported.
If the joining together of aging hearts is your thing, try “Mum” as well. It stars the ever-wonderful Lesley Manville as Cathy, a sweet-natured widow and mother to a bumbling son (Sam Swainsbury) with the most hysterically dim girlfriend (Lisa McGrillis) ever. With infinite patience, Cathy’s late husband’s best friend (Peter Mullan) pines in the hope that she’ll eventually look his way. 
Sante Vittorio Malli’s 1956 photo “When Snow Means Bread,” one of nearly 200 works by 60 photographers in this show at New York University's Grey Art Gallery and its Casa Italiana Zerilli-Marimò, perfectly exemplifies the combination of postwar hardship and black-and-white glamour known as Italian Neorealism. 
Five male figures in boots and coats, seen from behind, walk down a snowy road with picks and shovels over their shoulders like rifles. Two of them look back, as if checking to see that the wartime devastation they remember is still behind them. But as a group they’re focused on where they’re going, even if their destination — a few buildings, perhaps, almost hidden in the mist — is hard to discern. They could almost be actors on a soundstage shooting a heist movie. 
It's just one of the exhibit's innumerable demonstrations of how midcentury Italian photographers reconciled aesthetic imperatives with their medium's documentary potential. 
Satellite Collective ’s latest interdisciplinary ballet, “Echo & Narcissus,” hints at the anxiety and strife surrounding the current political landscape, but is set in New York in 1971. The production features Narcissus as a rebellious outsider from the South, while Echo, the nymph, is recast as a socialite. She falls in love with Narcissus, and together they commit a crime that leads to a tragic conclusion. 
But that’s just the narrative. In terms of inspiration, Satellite Collective bubbles over with creative energy. Formed in 2010 with the aim of having artists collaborate as equals, the “Echo & Narcissus” team includes the choreographer Norbert De La Cruz III, 