
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning,
We start with 
A Times investigation has found that the social network gave major technology firms, among other companies, 
The social network let Amazon obtain users’ names and contact information through their friends, and allowed Spotify and Netflix to read, write and delete users’ private messages. Facebook shared data with more than 150 companies, including The Times.
A 2011 agreement with the Federal Trade Commission banned the social network from sharing user data without explicit permission. Here are the 
Lawmakers on Tuesday 
Expressing “disgust” at efforts by President Trump’s first national security adviser to mislead investigators, a judge in Washington on Tuesday 
The judge, Emmet Sullivan, has a reputation for being hard on government misconduct, but he dismissed suggestions that Mr. Flynn had been treated unfairly by federal agents. Judge Sullivan also left no doubt that he viewed Mr. Flynn’s crimes as serious enough to warrant prison time, even though prosecutors recommended that he receive a lenient sentence.
Hackers 
Computer networks of the U.N., the A.F.L.-C.I.O., and ministries of foreign affairs and finance worldwide were also infiltrated.
On the Galápagos Islands, Charles Darwin once saw a blueprint for the origin of every species, including humans.
The islands now face their greatest evolutionary test yet, and scientists are worried. Our journalists traveled 600 miles off the coast of Ecuador to 
Also, have you ever wondered 
China and the U.S. may have declared a truce in their trade war, but it’s far from over.
This gives us the opportunity for a language lesson.
The English word “trade” is Germanic, 
In Mandarin Chinese, the word for trade is 
The character 
Yì also has the meaning “easy,” and the character appears in the Chinese word for “easy,” which is “
Of course, trade between China and the U.S. is anything but easy these days.
That’s it for this briefing. 
Do you have a story idea, a question for our newsroom or feedback on our coverage? 
See you next time.
— Chris