
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning,
We start today with 
Federal prosecutors are examining 
The investigation focuses on whether people from several Middle Eastern countries used straw donors to disguise their donations. Federal law prohibits foreign contributions to federal campaigns, political action committees and inaugural funds.
The Senate voted 56 to 41 to end American military assistance for Saudi forces in Yemen, where a nearly four-year war has killed thousands of civilians and brought widespread famine.
Senators also unanimously approved a resolution to hold Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman responsible for the death of Mr. Khashoggi, a Washington Post columnist who lived in the U.S.
Driven by a limited pool of skilled workers and the high cost of living in Silicon Valley and Seattle, companies including Apple, Amazon and Google are 
The companies are coalescing particularly around a handful of urban areas that were already winners in the new knowledge-based economy.
Democratic lawmakers in New Jersey are seeking to make Republicans a permanent minority party by 
The plan has faced bipartisan criticism, including from national Democratic leaders who say it undercuts criticism of what they call Republican power grabs in states including Wisconsin and Michigan. A vote on the measure is scheduled for Monday.
Max Harris, 29, found his own original way to Oakland, Calif. He took up residence at an artists’ warehouse called the Ghost Ship, did chores there and collected rent. And then it was consumed by fire during a concert in 2016. 
Now he lives in a 6-by-12-foot jail cell, awaiting trial related to 36 deaths in the fire, including those of some of his close friends. 
And we examine growing evidence that 
Last week we asked you, our readers, for ideas for Back Stories — and we were overwhelmed by the response.
Richard Babyak, a reader from Cleveland, suggested we look into the Tantlinger twist lock.
Invented in the mid-1950s by 
Twist locks are placed into the corner fittings of shipping containers, which can then be locked to others by 
To be useful, containers had to be standardized, and others had developed rival ways of stacking them. But after Mr. Tantlinger persuaded his former employer to release the 
These standardized stackable containers quickly replaced the manual loading and unloading of cargo and the cost of transport plummeted, 
That’s it for this briefing. Have a good weekend.
— Chris