
Over the past few years, DJ Khaled has grown into several new roles: 
“YDTMHTL” stands for “You don’t tell me how to live!,” a refrain that young women can shout back at unwanted judgments or advice delivered with “fake concern.” On this first song from an album due in April, “Capture the Flag,” the 
“Nothing but happiness, nothing but joy,” the Malian songwriter Sidi Touré declares in this song celebrating a wedding. And sheer euphoria radiates from a groove that starts with a succinct desert-blues guitar lick, then keeps piling up polyrhythms, foreground and background, until it’s utterly, gloriously head spinning. J.P.
The British band Shopping comes from the skeletal-repetition school of post-punk, and “Suddenly Gone,” from its album “The Official Body,” is constructed from a small handful of terse single-note guitar lines and bass riffs behind Rachel Aggs brusquely chanting a critique of capitalism: “When will you recognize a single consequence/or are you waiting until everything’s gone?” The wild card, rare in this very austere genre, is a second, overdubbed drum kit; against a dutiful steady wallop, its rumbles and crashes incite some anarchy. J.P.
Two songs from the forthcoming Rae Sremmurd triple album, one from each member. But rather than propose new stand-alone identities, these songs end up reinforcing — leaning on, really — the component parts that when combined, have made Rae Sremmurd 
The pianist Keith Jarrett hasn’t performed with his longtime trio in many years, but on Friday he released “After the Fall,” a collection of 12 jazz classics recorded in concert 20 years ago. This is a straight-ahead trio for the ages, fed by a tension between Mr. Jarrett’s resolute, lapidary touch and the collective’s shape-shifting, onward drive. On “Bouncin’ With Bud,” the tuneful Bud Powell classic, Jack DeJohnette maintains a openhanded clatter on the drums, while Mr. Jarrett revels in the tune’s major-key buoyancy. Stating the melody, he rounds off some of 
“Run” follows a bad breakup, enfolded by lies and contradictions and divided loyalties among friends. “Just don’t kick me when I’m down,” sings the woman who calls herself pronoun, singing both alone and multitracked. “You’re just another lost and found.” The track is stolid three-chord rock, building and pounding and gleaming, subsiding and building again. And the situation is a pre-emptive defense. Pronoun knows full well that, “You’re gonna run.” J.P.
There are rappers who write words and then hope to put them to a melody, and then there is Valee, who is melody first, cadence second, imaginative and sometimes odd lyrics third (but never an afterthought). “Miami” is an older song of his, but now that he’s signed to G.O.O.D. Music, it’s being revived for his major-label debut EP, “GOOD Job, You Found Me.” On this remix, he even nudges Pusha T, he of the irreducible snarl, toward a stop-start flow that sounds like boasts being delivered backward. J.C.
The only album likely to be released internationally this year with lyrics in Cornish — an ancient, vanishing British language — is “Le Kov” by the Welsh singer and songwriter Gwenno. The album is a grab-bag of styles, often retro, but “Herdhya” sets a whispery, Celtic-tinged vocal to eerie electronica, full of time-reversed chords and echoey piano tones. As the lyrics examine post-Brexit isolation, the music posits a very uncertain future. J.P.
A U.K. rap remix of “Look Alive” that takes the interaction on 
Humor faces down desolation in “Nobody’s Home” from “Call Me Lucky,” an existential ramble from the latest album by the sage, scratchy-voiced, blues-rooted, 73-year-old songwriter Chris Smither: “Everybody wants to text me ‘cause they ain’t got nothing to say,” he notes. He recorded two versions, as he did with half a dozen of the album’s songs; one’s a ragtimey cackle, while the other is slower and more pensive, revealing a little more darkness. J.P.
Anthony Braxton has always seen his reconstituted, spatial music as a part of a wide tradition, lacing free improvisation into new compositional models. The jazz world has never known quite what to do with it all. But Mr. Braxton, an inclusive thinker and far-ranging saxophonist, 