
“The Secret World,” Christopher Andrew’s vast new history of espionage and intelligence, is a comprehensive exploration of spying in its myriad forms from the Bible to the present day. A detailed work of scholarship, it is easy to dip into, and surprisingly funny. Spies have an acute sense of the ridiculous, and their own absurd and lethal drama. I am belatedly reading “
Last year, I finally read “Moby-Dick.” I am not only embarrassed not to have read it before, but faintly appalled by the thought that I might actually have gone through life without ever reading it. I became obsessed by Melville’s great novel of obsession, and Ishmael’s quest for life’s meaning in the “damp, drizzly November in my soul.” Everyone should be made to read it, using force if necessary.
I still return to “The Great Gatsby” every few years. I have always been fascinated by double lives, people who exist with one personality on the outside and another in an interior world. 
Norman Lewis, the British travel writer, is hardly unheard-of, but scandalously underread today. His masterpiece, “Naples ’44,” describes with mordant humor the chaos in that city in the aftermath of the Allied invasion of Italy. Written 30 years after the events he witnessed as a young military intelligence officer, the book is alternately elegiac and furious, and frequently hilarious.
In fiction, no one explores the world of spying more brilliantly than John le Carré, but among the practitioners of espionage Kim Philby stands alone as a guide. A British intelligence officer who secretly spied for the K.G.B. for 30 years, Philby wrote just one book, “My Silent War,” after he fled to Moscow in 1963. It is an unashamed apologia for treachery on the grand scale, a book about deception that is also, in large parts, entirely mendacious. Only an upper-class, privately educated, clever and bitter English spook could have achieved the level of eloquent spleen in this delightfully nasty book.
I read everything written by Robert Harris, Zadie Smith and William Boyd. Charles Cumming has breathed new life into the spy novel. Jez Butterworth and Nina Raine are writing plays of extraordinary power and depth. At The New Yorker, Malcolm Gladwell is a quixotic genius and Anthony Lane writes about film with a combination of expertise and wit that is never less than intoxicating. Simon Armitage is my favorite living British poet.
My father, an academic and writer, believed that rejecting a bad book and the wistful joy of finishing a good one are the twin joys of reading. I think of him whenever I hurl an unfinished book at the wall, or close the last page of a book and immediately wish to start it again. Among the living, Robert McCrum, former literary editor of The Observer, has perfect pitch, and John Carey, veteran literary critic at The Sunday Times, is almost always right — despite having once skewered me with not only the worst review I have ever received, but the worst review I have ever read. Annoyingly, he was right about that too.
I read for pleasure first thing in the morning and last thing at night, and for work most of the rest of the time: in bed, at tables, in cafes, on trains, by audio in the car, and whenever I am meant to be doing something supposedly more urgent. I also read in the bath, using a Victorian brass and mahogany reading contraption which swings out over the tub and allows one to turn the pages with one finger, thus reducing dampness and potential mildew.
Discretion and modesty. As a very British sort of Briton, I have an affection for the stiff upper lip, the emotion unvoiced, the desire undeclared. Characters, real or imagined, who are forever explaining what they feel, hope and regret, I find extremely boring. By contrast, the individual who does not blurt out what he or she knows or feels never fails to touch me. This is particularly true in espionage. One of the C.I.A. code names for MI6 (the British intelligence service) during the Cold War was UPTIGHT. It was meant to be an insult. I take it as a compliment.
I find myself increasingly returning to the classics: Dickens, Austen, Updike, Conan Doyle, Chandler, Wodehouse. Similarly, my taste in thrillers seems to going back in time: Eric Ambler, and the earlier Elmore Leonard and le Carré. The only modern humorous novelist I now read is Carl Hiaasen. In common, I suspect, with most writers of historical narrative nonfiction, I struggle with historical fiction: What is true? What is imagined? What is fake? Similarly, when nonfiction writers start to speculate about the past, you know they have run out of real road and the book hits the wall.
I would love to have written “
I have given up. “Books do furnish a room,” Anthony Powell wrote. Over time, they begin to dominate a room. Finally, they entirely engulf a room, then the next room, then the whole house. Then they kill you, as they killed Leonard Bast in E. M. Forster’s “Howards End,” memorably crushed to death by a falling bookcase. Alarmingly, my books appear to be breeding independently, so I am now leaving them to get on with arranging themselves without my help.
I am trying to get everyone in the family to read “Kolymsky Heights,” Lionel Davidson’s 1994 Cold War thriller set in the bone-cracking cold of the Siberian winter: ideal beach reading, and the perfect antidote to summer overheating.
“Michael Rosen’s Sad Book,” a tiny, intensely moving children’s book about grief prompted by the death of his son, Eddie, and illustrated by Quentin Blake.
Uncle Matthew in Nancy Mitford’s “The Pursuit of Love”: How could anyone not adore a character who hunts his own children with bloodhounds and keeps above the fireplace “an entrenching tool with which, in 1915, Uncle Matthew had whacked to death eight Germans one by one as they crawled out of a dugout.” The first, best and eternal antihero is Professor Moriarty, Sherlock Holmes’s mortal enemy, from which every Bond villain, master criminal and unseen malefactor is descended.
Voracious, since we had no television. Enid Blyton, Ronald Welch, the children’s histories of R. J. Unstead, “
Might he get through the whole of “
Theresa May, politically weak and enmeshed in brutal Brexit negotiations, needs an uplifting escape story: I suggest Laura Hillenbrand’s “
Let’s invite Christopher Hitchens, Winston Churchill and Nancy Mitford. It will be riotous, bibulous and unforgettable.
I loved Hilary Mantel’s earlier writing, but I just couldn’t get on with “
Me. Preferably never.
Donna Tartt’s “