
As Britain — like its younger sibling across the pond — gruffly proclaims its distance from the outside world (at least for the political moment), we can all be thankful that Brexit came too late to halt the culinary globalization of London. 
Put ideology aside. This otherwise noble capital inclining its palate to devotees of porridge and boiled mutton was never a thing to celebrate. Of course, a visitor could always find scattered exceptions. But it was work. The drab baseline held longer than it should have — even through the roaring ‘90s, which brought higher restaurant prices without a corresponding leap in adventurousness. 
A decade had passed before I returned to London and discovered that I’d missed the revolution. No longer can it be said that London is only a great city between meals. What was once a sallow and predictable dining experience is now salubrious and full of surprises, befitting a metropolis of such diversity and ingenuity. This holds true not only in the high-rent zones of West End, Covent Garden and Soho but also — maybe even especially — in less commercialized districts to the east, such as Shoreditch and Bethnal Green. In short, London’s culinary flowering is a citywide phenomenon. For those finding fault in a cuisine that thoroughly departs from Her Majesty’s customary vittles, I refer you to 
Though the Shoreditch district can be fairly accused of off-the-rails hipsterism — manifested in its avocado bar and its upscale treehouse for adults — its dining scene is fast becoming one of London’s best. 
 The creation of the wunderkind Welsh chef Tomos Parry, Brat is studiously informal, its airy second-story dining room featuring large windows that afford a view of the neighborhood’s modest brick residences and commercial hodgepodge. Mr. Parry’s small open kitchen is dominated by a charcoal grill that is in constant use. Like its patrons, Brat’s staff is uniformly young, unfussy and clever — vintage Shoreditch, in other words, but not oppressively so. For so heralded a restaurant, its daily menu is remarkably approachable. Prices for appetizers start at about $5 and entrees at roughly $22; close to two dozen wines are available by the glass. A cup of cracked salt appeared on my table without my having to beg for it. I was also grateful for the absence of locavore virtue-signaling on the menu: no names of farms; just exquisitely fresh ingredients. 
My dinner was uncomplicated and also flawless, beginning with a quartet of voluptuous oysters roasted with seaweed and minced celery. I 
The sun was now descending over Shoreditch, and the din inside became increasingly jovial, but well shy of raucous. My server brought me a plate of grilled asparagus with ricotta cheese, bread crumbs and the faintest whisper of mint — far too delectable to qualify as the simple palate-cleanser I’d intended it to be. At last came the entree: a grilled pork chop from the market town of Tamworth, topped by slices of grilled peach. This was the apotheosis of simplicity’s genius. I chewed slowly, reverently. Was Brat British? Was Brat hip? No diner here could possibly care.
The West End neighborhood of Mayfair is not for the faint of wallet. But since its high-end boutiques and majestic squares are difficult for a tourist to resist, you might as well find a decent place to settle in for a meal after a long day of envy.
On the Thursday evening I strolled into the elegant, pub-dark restaurant, the harried waiters were quick to show me to my table and then to forget that I was there. Fully 15 minutes passed before I was rediscovered. But I was soon mollified by the arrival of a silver goblet of Jaipur India Pale Ale and Gymkhana’s weighty menu.
The culinary possibilities here seem innumerable, starting with several tasting menus — one of them consisting entirely of game — paired with a dazzling global assortment of wines by the glass. Given the initial slowness, I thought better of a multicourse arrangement that could last until midnight. And in any event, most of the dishes are also available a la carte. 
Befitting haughty Mayfair, Gymkhana isn’t cheap. But low-cost delicacies are available, beginning with the shrimp and mango chutney as well as the papadums stuffed with cassava, lentil and the palm stem extract known as 
Gymkhana wasn’t through with me yet. The game-tasting menu had inspired me to finish with the wild muntjac biryani, pomegranate and mint raita — a venison dish that arrived in the form of baked bread with sesame and other seeds on top. While not nudging the pain threshold as the goat had, the venison beneath the crust was even more mysterious in its spicy elaborations (cinnamon being the one recognizable flavor). Those two dishes in tandem represent the most unforgettable Indian meal I’ve had, and I left Gymkhana confident that I had only scratched its surface. 
By happy accident, during one recent trip to London I happened to be staying at 
Like Gymkhana, Eneko makes no culinary concessions: You’re in northern Spain. At the same time, just as the former restaurant prices its fare to Mayfair pocketbooks, the latter is a place where a theatergoer can go small if needed. It helps to begin with a glass of one of the crisp and aromatic white wines from the owner’s family vineyard, and a rock-solid charcuterie plate of chorizo, 
During one of my visits to Eneko, a server recommended something that the menu calls “traditional talo.” It turned out to be a large baked corn tortilla subdivided into quadrant bites covered with opulent heritage tomatoes, basil and olive emulsions, edible flowers and little caviar-like bubbles made of olive oil. In other words, a tomato salad elevated three notches. 
It’s equally hard to say no to Eneko’s suckling pig tempura balls in a lascivious bacon sauce. But on my most recent outing, I gravitated to the Basque-style squid in a deep and creamy Mordor-like ink sauce. I sprang for a bottle of Catalonian orange wine fermented in amphorae, which turned out to be a fine acidic accompaniment. It lasted through the last morsel of anise-and-olive-oil bread — a splendid denouement, with only one thing missing. A convivial Spanish restaurant cries out for company. Next time, I won’t come alone.
There’s a casual theatricality to the restaurant started four years ago by 
The burrata appetizer is a case in point. Its accompaniments vary according to season — apricots, pine nuts and mint during one visit; pumpkin seeds, figs and pomegranates during another — but the marshaling of flavors is always a subtle revelation. After dispensing with the first course, I thumbed through Sager + Wilde’s
I took a long look at the pork shoulder chop, 
Robert Draper is a frequent contributor to the Travel section.