
Facebook let some of the world’s largest technology companies have more intrusive access to users’ personal data than it had previously disclosed. That’s according to 
The two huge pharmaceutical companies 
When U.S. central bankers meet in Washington today, they’re likely to announce their fourth interest-rate rises of the year.
President Trump is to dissolve what was once billed as the charitable arm of his financial empire and give away its remaining assets, as part of a continuing action by New York’s attorney general, 
The sell-off in stocks isn’t the only warning sign in the financial markets. The bond markets look scary too, write Matt Phillips and Peter Eavis of the NYT, and 
• “Bond markets dictate the cost of borrowing money, and that can determine actual economic activity.”
• “Lately, borrowing costs have been rising quickly. Investors worried about corporate debt loads and the impact of a potential slowdown on profits are demanding companies pay them higher interest rates.”
• “And, in a recent troubling sign for the economy, fewer companies have been turning to the bond market to finance their businesses.”
• “While the stock market sell-off may eventually affect sentiment among consumers and corporate executives, bond market moves can have an immediate impact on the economy by discouraging borrowing and investment.”
• “With the American economy already expected to slow in 2019, the climbing costs of corporate borrowing could determine whether any slowdown turns into something much worse.”
The Chinese telecom company Huawei is in the middle of the U.S.-China trade war, with America and several other Western countries talking about its hardware as a threat to national security. That’s forcing it to make some painful changes.
The Fed has been blamed for the recent market volatility. So have slowing global growth and President Trump’s trade wars. But some observers point to a different culprit.
They tumbled more than 7 percent on Tuesday, 
Snap’s VP of hardware development, 
CBS is hunting for a C.E.O., and 
Deutsche Bank has reportedly lost as many as many as 50 bankers in Hong Kong and Singapore in the past six months. (
FedEx hopes to cut thousands of jobs via a voluntary buyout program. (
The first day of trading for SoftBank’s mobile unit went badly: Shares fell 15 percent, wiping $9 billion off the company’s I.P.O. market capitalization. (
A federal judge reviewing a proposed merger between CVS Health and Aetna asked them to keep some operations distinct for now. (
General Electric is said to have filed confidentially for an I.P.O. of its health care unit. (
Bain Capital reportedly closed a new Asia-focused fund worth $4.65 billion. (
The Trump administration banned bump stocks, attachments that let semiautomatic rifles fire in rapid bursts. (
Michael Flynn, President Trump’s first national security adviser, won’t be sentenced on charges of lying to the F.B.I. until at least March. (
The Senate approved a substantial criminal-justice overhaul. (
The White House signaled that it might not shut down the government after all. (
Hacked European cables reveal that the world is anxious about Mr. Trump, Russia and Iran. (
The British government is embarking on full-on preparations for a “no-deal Brexit.” (
Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said the U.S. would hold face-to-face trade talks with China in January. (
President Xi Jinping of China gave a defiant speech yesterday that suggested those talks might not be straightforward. (
Elon Musk showed off the 
Charter Communications agreed to a $174.2 million settlement with New York’s attorney general over misleading internet speeds. (
Apple is trying to sell iPhones in India. It’s not going well. (
Anthony Levandowski, the engineer at the center of the Uber-Waymo lawsuit, has a new autonomous vehicle start-up. (
How America could lead the transition to a digital currency reserve. (
Europe is investing more than $9 billion in microelectronics research. (
If Les Moonves fights CBS over his ouster, it will pay his legal bills. (
How Carlos Ghosn’s push into the U.S. irked Nissan executives. (
New York fined Barclays $15 million over its C.E.O.’s hunt for a whistle-blower. (
For the first time, China was the first country to approve a treatment from a global drugmaker. (
The husband of an M.&A. director at UBS has been sued by the S.E.C. for insider trading. (
“Parents spend more time on media than their kids.” (