
At the Athens Democracy Forum last week, a conference convened by The New York Times in Athens from Sept. 16 to 18, international leaders and policymakers debated a wide range of issues affecting the political health of the globe. Here are excerpts from the discussions. They have been edited and condensed.
When we build social media the kind of platforms that we and others build, what they essentially do is dramatically lower the cost of entry for anybody who wants to become media. And so anybody sitting in the audience today with a smartphone could decide that they are now the TV station “Athens Today” and they can go out and they can film stuff and broadcast it live to the world over our server, essentially at no cost to themselves, to a global audience. People have used that lower barrier to entry to create some amazing things. And if we think back over the last few years, there were moments like the Arab Spring when I think a lot of people were celebrating the political convening power of technologies like ours. They brought people together to assert themselves against repressive regimes. We’re now seeing the other side of it, which is people who, I guess, people in this room would feel much more concerned about using exactly the same technology, using the low barrier of entry to come at us. The question now is how do we deal with that? We think it’s a combination of ourselves and governments.
What we’ve seen in the last year is concerns about different elections, different countries in the world, with a common thread, which is how relatively easy it is for an organization or, indeed, even a Russian agency, to gain social media to manipulate what people see, and to promote their favorite content, and try and influence the outcome of the elections as a consequence of that. And what we should be looking at in terms of protecting our democracy against that sort of attack is a combination of things. It’s about the transparency of the information that users see. I think it’s about the responsibility of the companies to monitor what’s going on their platform.
Sri Lanka has a high literacy rate — 90 percent. But when it comes to media literacy we don’t think critically. When somebody sends us something on WhatsApp, for instance, we’ll often, especially if it’s from a friend, we’ll often forward it on. So how do we get people to stop and think before blindly sharing things? I think that’s what we’ve also been trying to do — we’ve been trying to put infographics on photo and video verification, for example, and trying to push people to think more critically. And when it comes to the role of platforms like Facebook, I guess people in the audience might know that Facebook actually announced they’ve ruled out this misinformation policy for Sri Lanka. So we’ve been in communication with them. We’ve been learning more about the community standards and things like that. So this misinformation policy for Sri Lanka is kind of different to what’s happening in the rest of the world. It basically says that content will be proactively removed if it can be shown to result in real-world harm. Now this is a really progressive policy and a great step. But having said that, given how fast fake news can spread — you know, for example, it’s sometimes a matter of a couple of hours when things spread on Facebook and WhatsApp. And sometimes even faster. So how effective the new policy that’s going to be in place is, is an open question. But having said that, we think that this policy is really going to be useful and progressive. It’s still a little early to say how successful it will be, but we think it’ll help.
One thing has always remained the same — this is the human soul and heart. The personal journeys of each and every one of us are different, but we do share the same human inclination: When we face somebody in need, we want to help. This is one of the informal norms on which democracies are built. Because apart from laws and institutions, that are of course the foundation of democratic governance, what holds democracies together are also these informal norms, human acts that we all know are right. It is upon these common values of social solidarity, of standing by each other, of helping those in need, that we should try and rebuild our society.
I’m seeing an interesting tension between business and social movements, and I do believe that there is a tangible bridge that one can build between the two. I think the core is exclusion or inclusion. If you’re able to say which part of that spectrum you want to be part of, then you are part of the problem or part of the solution. Exclusion caused the Arab Spring, caused Brexit, caused all sorts of populist movements that we’re seeing everywhere. I think if we’re able to have businesses take that first step, if businesses are able to come forward and say, “What’s the solution that I can be part of the solution? What do I need to do? Can we use these goals — zero poverty, zero net carbon emissions, zero unemployment, zero inequality — and put them into business objectives?” That will make businesses really meaningful and inclusive.
We are a company, so obviously we do have to make a profit. But the objective is to make a fair profit, to manufacture without harming mankind. Also, some portion of the profit should be earmarked to protect and safeguard the world. I want to try and act as a temporary guardian of these places. This is the great dream. In our business we are trying to set up not globalization, but rather the universalism of man. We want to have respect for religions, for different cultures, for places. Pericles held a very important, fascinating speech in 400 B.C., where he said, “That’s the way we do things here in Athens.” And then he made a list of all the things that they do in Athens. And the very last sentence is, “Our city is open to the world, and we never kick out anybody.” We really need to be so brave as to be open to the world. We are a company — we have to make a profit, but without harming mankind in the process. This is what really matters.
I was elected to the Tunisian Confederation for Business. When I was elected, I called the general secretary of the union. I said to him: “We have to be together. We have to dialogue. We have to sit together. And we have to find solutions to all our conflicts.” We had this idea of a road map, a solution for Tunisia — how we can finish the constitution, how we can have democratic elections and how we can also have answers for young people. When they took to the streets in 2011 they asked for democracy, they asked for dignity and they asked for jobs. I think we have this feeling that we have to do something for our country. We didn’t do everything for our country, but I think we launched a challenge, how we can achieve democracy with dialogue.
Authoritarians are working to refashion the internet from technology that promotes freedom to a tool of oppression. This is being done through the use of disinformation, internet shutdowns, arrests and the blocking of political information.
A growing number of countries are manipulating content to impact elections. In most cases, it’s actually governments that are trying to maintain power, or political parties that want to come into power. In order to deal with fake news and disinformation, countries are trying to legislate solutions. But these types of laws are deeply problematic. In all of these instances, the authorities are saying that they are trying to combat gossip and fake news. This becomes a problem in environments where criticism of the government is considered fake news.
More and more governments are shutting down the internet completely in times of crisis, whether that be during elections or during political protests. China is building infrastructure in its neighborhood and in different African and Eurasian countries that could expose internet traffic to greater monitoring by the Chinese authorities.
I still see the internet as holding an unprecedented liberating power. We’ve seen it in Russia, where activists have been using YouTube to expose human rights abuses. We’ve seen it in the right-to-drive movement in Saudi Arabia. We need to work together to combat emerging challenges to internet freedom.
I’m going to begin by saying something very shocking to some of you. I actually believe that liberal democracy is a very good thing, contrary to what some of you may think. At the same time it’s very clear it’s facing some challenges.
But I do believe that if you look at the longer history of humanity, the directions are still very clear. Whenever societies develop a strong middle class, the middle class wants to be represented, and the best way to represent the middle class is through a liberal democratic regime. Now, it doesn’t mean the history is going to go in one simple direction. If you ask me if I’m optimistic that by the end of this century we’ll have a world which is thriving with democracy, I say, yes, I’m optimistic. But I’m also going to tell you about the challenges we will face on the way.
I think the problem that we are facing with liberal democracies is a result not of what we call the illiberal, but the failure of the liberal to understand the three big structural changes that have happened in the world. The full structural challenge is that we are coming to what I call the end of an artificial 200-year period of Western domination of world history. And liberalism travels on the power of its ideas, but it also travels on the back of the economic, military and political power that the West had. Now Western power is receding. So you now have got to market liberal democracy in a different way.
That’s structural challenge number one.
Structural challenge number two: When I grew up in the poorest society in Singapore as a child in the 1960s, liberal democracies looked like Gardens of Eden. And when I was 13 years old, you had John F. Kennedy as president. And you can imagine what a source of inspiration he was. Now, today you’ve gone from John F. Kennedy to Donald Trump. And you expect us to believe that liberal democracy is still as attractive as ever. So clearly you have to address this challenge, too.
And third — and this is a somewhat provocative point I want to make here — the difficulties that liberals have in trying to understand the world of today and with the end of Western domination, is that liberals like to live in what I call a “liberal bubble” and talk to other liberals, and have a somewhat intolerance for non-liberal voices.
Can you imagine a dialogue today based on mutual respect, let’s say between a representative of the United States and a representative of China, without a representative of the United States condemning China for saying, “Why don’t you have our form of government now?”
If a British utilitarian philosopher from the 18th century was alive today, and you asked him to name the one society that has delivered the greatest improvement of human happiness in the last 30 years, it’s China.
So how do you bring China into the conversation if you want to talk about the world of tomorrow? That’s the problem. So the liberals have got to come out of their bubble and deal with other voices on this planet.
Democracy, as you know, is when the representatives are chosen through free elections, and kept under watch by — as the president of Greece explained — by strong checks and balances, the independence of the judiciary able to protect basic human rights, like free speech, parliament, also freedom of the press, academic freedom and so on. So that’s the system. And today the majority of human beings are under democratic regimes that may be very different from each other’s, some more effective than others.
But we had an improvement of democracy around the world, with some setbacks recently that we need to speak about.
So why it’s good in a nutshell, as Churchill said, is that “Democracy is the worst form of government, except for all the others.”
So we need to keep this quote in mind in order to make sure that people don’t have romantic hopes about democracy. It will not deliver everything, but it will do better than the other systems. So the main advantage of democracy to me, it is protecting people against two insecurities — two sources of violence: anarchy and tyranny, chaos and despotism. So if you want to be protected by both, choose a democratic system.
If you look at the president of my adopted country, the United States, you may have noticed that he doesn’t appear to be, let’s say, overly fond of Muslims. When you look at another populist, Recep Erdogan, the president of Turkey, you might’ve noticed that he doesn’t appear to be overly fond of anybody who’s not a Muslim.
There are some populists who are very right-wing on the economy, who want to slash the welfare state and who like to serve big corporations. There are others who are very left-wing on the economy, people like Hugo Chávez and his handpicked successor, Nicolas Máduro, in Venezuela, who want to bolster the welfare state, but who rail against big corporations. They don’t have that in common either.
So does it make sense to speak of populists as a unitary item? I think it does. Because what they do have in common is a conception of politics in which they say the only real reason that we have problems today is because the political elite is corrupt and self-serving, and they need to be thrown out of office. But since you don’t want to admit that you’ve overpromised, you start to blame. You start to blame everything that goes wrong on the media, which are apparently fake news and need to be cowed and regulated. You start to blame it on the opposition, who supposedly are traitors. You start to blame it on independent institutions like law enforcement agencies or the courts, who supposedly are enemies of the people.