
Good morning, Andrew, so nice to meet you!
Three hours behind you here in Berkeley and just up after a two-show day yesterday, legs still covered with alcohol-based makeup, feeling like I was hit by a truck. Two more shows today. We’ve been doing five-show weekends for five weeks now. Brutal. Four-and-a-half to five hours for each show, with prep, makes a 25-hour weekend toiling in the theater. Another two shows and it’s the French workweek!
Do you have a preference (or a dread)?
Give a sweet hello to Lee Pace and my ancient dear friend Mr. Nathan Lane, who sent me a self-satirizing “How dare you!” for doing this out here while he was doing it in NYC. He’s right, of course, but for a different though probably just as comical reason: These plays are nuts!
Ah! Stephen!!!
It’s so funny. I’ve been meaning to sit down and write you a proper letter since the beginning of the process, as I feel as though I’ve been living with you while doing the part and this play. Of course because your Prior is so deeply engraved on people’s minds and hearts from 25 years ago. It is the stuff of legend and myth.
And although daunting to walk in the huge footsteps you left behind, it’s honestly been more joyful than harrowing. To be swimming around this gorgeous person knowing that you were the first deep sea explorer.
I’m stupidly excited to watch your production and your Prior on crappy, hazy, most likely VHS cassette tape. And weep my face off. As soon as our run is over I’m running to the Lincoln Center library.
Hold on! Did you say you’re doing a five-show weekend?! That’s criminal! How on earth are you all surviving? Bananas alone can’t be enough! (I confess I’ve been eating a bunch a day simply because you did.)
I’m only able to write now as it is our day off. My days off are spent mostly horizontal and as mindless as humanly possible. I’ve devised a system of temporarily lobotomizing myself each break I get.
How is it now playing his antithesis, Roy? What made you think this was a good idea? And how is it watching Randy Harrison make his own Prior before your eyes? I imagine it must be surreal for him.
I’ll tell you my preference and my dread:
My preference is “Millennium.”
My dread is [the second act in “Perestroika”]: glitter queen into ANTI MIGRATORY EPISTLE (!!!!!!!!!!) into there’s no angel!!!
I think it’s the tether-less feeling of losing one’s mind. The terrible exhaustion. The hopelessness, the rock bottom sensation. And then the great relief of surrendering to it. The madness. The other world crashing through. The psyche breaking. Oof.
It feels strangely cathartic confessing this to someone who will, I pray, understand. Every time that section of “Perestroika” approaches I have an impulse to fake my own death and start a new life growing marijuana in Northern California.
I’d love to know what you loved and dreaded as Prior and now as Roy?
Love,
Andrew
Andrew! You’re fabulous! And the admiration is much appreciated, though it makes me feel a bit like the queen on the Prior float in the “Angels in America” parade.
It must be said off the bat that the Prior of the early ’90s will never happen again, regardless of my gifts or the gifts of any actor playing him. That gay man with AIDS who wrestled a misguided reactionary Angel of America and won more life — the impact of that Prior was as a secular prophet at that moment in history after 10 gruesome years of heartbreaking loss, with still three years to come before the three-drug cocktail changed everything.
I’m happy to take credit for my performance, but I can’t take credit for the full measure of its impact is what I’m trying to say. The times had a lot to do with that.
Indeed, a treasure of men and women have approached me over the years with stories of loss the play broke open for them. For their memories, for that grace, I’ll ride that Prior float happily till my last day, but for actors playing him, let’s just let it move on.
I will take credit for one thing though: being out at the ’93 Tonys. I 
One thing that has been spectacular about doing Roy here, with Randy playing Prior, is dismantling in me a feeling of propriety on the part. I’ve found immense joy in watching a marvelous actor make his own mark, while I am getting to do the same with Roy, a role that had always belonged in my mind to Ron Leibman.
I need to stop writing now. “Millennium” tonight.
I’m right in the middle of a two-show day. Longing to respond fully. But it will have to wait.
The Angel just crashed through the ceiling, and I’m trying to settle my nervous system by listening to Judy Garland at Carnegie Hall, eating green tasteless food and being as horizontal as possible. Will meditate/sleep in a minute before the dreaded act formerly mentioned in this exchange. But tonight I’ll reread your words and attempt a deeper response.
In the meantime I’m happy to share that this is providing a great solace. I find that the play can feel extremely lonely, especially for Prior. Inhabiting that is a strange painful gift, of course, and yet reaching through space and time to you, a Prior Walter acting ancestor, has a touch of the divine in it. So thank you Stephen.
I hope your day is flowing nicely.
More later.
Love,
Andrew. X
Great solace for me as well. It’s so lovely to unpack this with someone after all these years. Restore, regroup for the dive in the deep end.
xxx
Two-show Wednesday done! Ethel Rosenberg’s son and granddaughter were in today. Remarkable to meet them afterward. Warm and soulful people. I feel they got some good healing from our show, too.
My post-show nights have become sacred. I’m tempted always to stay up as late as possible so that I can feel myself as Andrew as much as I can. One of the things I love about doing this epic masterpiece is that rest feels earned.
I totally hear you about feeling like the Prior on the “Angels” float. And I honestly can’t imagine your experience of putting these plays on as they were being written and as the crisis was ongoing. I wonder how it feels in retrospect versus how it felt in real time?
Watching that stunning documentary “
Back to the play. Here in the new century, Tony’s prophecy has been proven true: “We will all be insane.” I was struck in heaven tonight, as I was trying to return this misguided book to these terrified impotent angels, by how hard it is to let go of an old story. How deeply the water of our culture has been poisoned by certain puritanical religious ideas and how imprisoned we are without awareness.
How was “Millennium” tonight? I hope it went well. Do you find that every time feels like the first? I find it always feels dangerous and it’s impossible to ever be comfortable. The writing demands you to be alive. Never settled. And it makes yesterday’s performance irrelevant.
It’s 2 a.m. here, and I’m just beginning to wind down. I ate a big piece of fried chicken for dinner. The great news about playing Prior of course is that you can eat what you want. The play strips it right off of you.
Thank you again for this correspondence.
All my love.
Andrew. X
“In the new century we will all be insane.” That just nails the prophetic soul of this play, Andrew. From the late ’80s into the ’90s I listened to that line as I have listened to it here now for five months, and I never heard it. The world right now, and all of us in it, feel so insane. I imagine after Brexit you felt that as deeply as we do here with Trump.
There is an epigraph from Stanley Kunitz’s 
We had two shows yesterday, and for the first time an actor had to take a show off to rest his voice. Vocally this show is murder. Our house here is about 700 and acoustically beautiful but still you have to produce with power. Characters in this play live larger than most. And there are the manifestations of illness, legs that hurt, spasms and convulsions, coughing fits and vomiting. (A weird Prior-to-Roy aside: I keep feeling like my leg should hurt. I spent so many years doing this play with a leg that hurt, I sometimes now feel like I still have to do that!)
I’m having trouble writing about Roy. In a strange way the play protects him, or, more specifically, the play’s presentation of his horrific death from AIDS protects him. Those kinds of deaths are rare now in America, so it was important for Tony Taccone, our director, and me to present AIDS in as full a measure as the play can sustain.
Taccone and I have also restored Roy’s final phone call. It was cut before the Broadway opening in ’93 and I’ve always missed it. Taccone, who co-directed the L.A. production with Oskar Eustis, knew it from then. They cut it, I guess, because of the argument that there were too many endings.
It’s a great speech; it’s set up beautifully in the play in two places, and it doesn’t allow the play to rest in perfectibility. Roy rises from hell after Harper flies off to San Francisco (Heaven), phone to his ear telling God he’ll take his case: The angels are suing God for abandonment! Classic Kushner jokes ensue, but the overall feeling is a kind of terror that Roy will, as he says, “never die.”
The Rep is giving us four days off for beginning Memorial Day, so David, my husband (the real deal nowadays) and I, with our dog, Teddy, are heading up to the giant redwoods and a drive down the glorious California coast. There is so much in the play about the spectacular beauty of life on this planet, and we’re going to get some of that.
I cannot tell you how much I’ve appreciated doing this. In some ways I’ve gotten a burden off my back.I’ve been able to look into the heart of a play that I haven’t been able to for years.
Break a leg for the rest of your glorious run, Andrew. You’re a mensch and a wonder. Broadway and Kushner are lucky to have you!
Xxx
Stephen, you have no idea what you have given me here.
I love that you feel somewhat unburdened. It makes me think of lines from 
So funny that your body feels like it should be limping. I remember a performance where I was in the wings, and I wasn’t limping, having forgotten to. As soon as I crossed the threshold to the stage the limp came without any thought. My body was saving me from messing up. Miraculous!
That’s what this play, in part, feels like to me. A grief-prayer-song-celebration. Letting those souls lost in the plague know that we remember them, helping them to continue their crossing over the sea of death and into their rightful place in the infinite. Especially that epilogue.
I’ve truly felt lighter since we started this correspondence, Stephen. I’ve felt carried through the play each night. Carried on the wings of all you’ve so generously shared. This will of course make you feel once more like the queen on the Prior float, but please just wave and smile and accept my adulation and gratitude.
The image of you and your husband driving Highway 1 has me thinking of Northern California. It’s where I go to remember myself. When I, as Prior, describe the real San Francisco as being unspeakably beautiful, I’m actually conjuring that glorious dramatic natural coastline through Big Sur.
Sending you and the whole company all my love from the Neil Simon Theater. My hand is at your back as I feel yours on mine.
I can’t wait to meet in person. Thank you, thank you, thank you.
Love,
Andrew. X