
Re “
Mr. Trump tore into our NATO allies over their “delinquent” and insufficient military spending, despite a pre-existing agreement to raise spending by 2024.
In Britain he stunningly criticized Prime Minister Theresa May’s position on Brexit and even exclaimed that former Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson would make “a great prime minister.”
The president’s performance abroad shows him at best to be an embarrassing neophyte in international diplomacy and at worst someone who is simply in far over his head.
Soon Mr. Trump is off to a summit meeting in Helsinki with President Vladimir Putin of Russia. The world waits to see if he will continue to create shock waves that will upset the established world order.
KEN DEROW, SWARTHMORE, PA.
I know that it is important to be calm, patient and restrained when dealing with someone like President Trump, hard as that may be, but I cannot understand why Theresa May did not cancel the meetings with him and also say that the queen was suddenly indisposed.
I understand that Mrs. May is in a very fragile political position. Maybe she believed she could get something worthwhile out of this visit, but to have to put up with the horrendous verbiage that Mr. Trump spewed about her is beyond the pale. Add to this his outrageous behavior during the NATO meetings and you have to wonder how much more groveling will our allies force themselves to do.
Will no one among our allies have the guts to finally stand up to the president and say what is needed? When dealing with someone like Mr. Trump, it’s time to do away with the niceties of diplomacy.
PETER A. THEIL, WASHINGTON
As a former member of the United Kingdom Parliament and the Scottish Parliament, I do not see why the British taxpayer should foot the bill for President Trump’s security during his Scottish holiday this weekend. The policing operation for the rounds of golf the president will play at his Trump Turnberry hotel may
Since Mr. Trump is forcefully pressing the United Kingdom to spend more on our own security, I believe that our government should ask him to pay for his own. Not least because his Scottish jaunt will promote his own businesses, which is a clear conflict of interest.
I have called on Prime Minister Theresa May to tell the president that he can send his personal check for $6 million directly to NATO.
KEITH RAFFAN, LONDON
May I apologize for the appalling behavior of a small minority of my fellow Brits toward your president? This includes the BBC and the London mayor. The only problem for many of us is that President Trump lives in Washington and not at No. 10 Downing Street, which would be far preferable to us.
MONIMA O’CONNOR
Winston Churchill famously said that the Americans can always be counted on to do the right thing — after exhausting the alternatives. The Brits are waiting.
ROBERT FRANKLIN