
LONDON — Conservative members of Parliament in Britain will vote Wednesday night on whether Theresa May should stay on as party leader and prime minister, a move that threatens to throw the Brexit process into further chaos and bring the nation one step closer to a disastrous no-deal exit.
While many members of Mrs. May’s cabinet have lined up behind her publicly, behind the scenes some are said to be preparing bids in case she falls. Several former ministers would also be in the running. These are some of the leading contenders.
Mr. Raab, a staunch supporter of leaving the European Union, took over as the government’s chief Brexit negotiator in July. He argued for a more comprehensive break with the bloc but, when he did not get his way, resigned over the deal Mrs. May settled on in November. That move burnished his anti-European credentials, lifting his chances of winning a vote among all members of the Conservative Party, the final stage of the leadership election process.
On the downside, as chief Brexit negotiator he was ridiculed after admitting that he “hadn’t quite understood” how much British trade relied on the Dover-Calais crossing with France. But at 44, he is one of the youngest leadership candidates and seen as unencumbered by the baggage of past party infighting.
Mr. Johnson, the former foreign secretary and a frontman for the campaign for Britain to leave the European Union, is a favorite of grass-roots party members for his hard-line Brexit stance, his flamboyant rhetoric and his decision to resign from the cabinet in protest against the prime minister’s withdrawal strategy.
While some of his allies within the party see in him a leader capable of delivering a decisive break from the European Union, he has a wide range of critics who see him as a self-serving opportunist who is quick to criticize but has only airy promises of future British greatness to offer as a plan.
And enough of those critics are in Parliament that he could not be sure of making the final round, in which two names are put before the party membership as a whole. Conservative lawmakers winnow out the contenders in a series of ballots, and can shift their votes tactically to eliminate candidates they consider unacceptable.
If he were to eventually emerge as the party leader, many analysts say that could create deeper ruptures within the party and greater chaos in the withdrawal process.
Like Mrs. May, Mr. Javid backed staying in the European Union in the 2016 referendum but has since switched sides. As home secretary, he has tried to ease the government’s hard-line anti-immigration approach and mollify police leaders angry over budget cuts.
A former banker whose father worked as a bus driver, Mr. Javid is at the top of some polls of potential party leaders. But he is less than fully trusted among fervent supporters of Brexit, who believe that other contenders worked harder behind the scenes to advance their cause.
Mr. Gove helped lead the campaign for leaving the European Union in 2016, famously arguing that Britons had had “enough of experts” telling them what was best. He has since become one of the most reliable salespeople for Mrs. May’s deal, remaining in the prime minister’s cabinet as environment secretary over the protests of some of his allies in the referendum campaign.
When the Conservatives last chose a new leader, in the wake of that campaign, he torpedoed Mr. Johnson’s candidacy with a late decision to enter the race himself, and the reputation he earned then for stabbing allies in the back (or the front, as some argued) has stuck with him. Mr. Gove is now seen as having a narrow route to the party leadership, with pro-Brexit politicians angry at him for standing behind Mrs. May’s deal and pro-Europeans angry at him for backing Brexit.
Ms. Rudd — a close ally of Mrs. May who was 
While Ms. Rudd supports the prime minister’s proposed Brexit deal, she became the first minister to publicly discuss a “Plan B” should the proposal not pass through Parliament. Her supporters believe that she could build a consensus in Parliament over a new approach to Brexit.
But that stance would be unlikely to find favor among grass-roots party members. There are also concerns over the fact that she holds a tiny majority in her Hastings and Rye constituency; the prime minister needs to be in Parliament, and she might lose her seat at the next general election.
Mr. Hunt, the foreign secretary, is not widely considered a popular first choice but many people’s second choice, one who would be acceptable to many factions in the party. Though he voted for Britain to remain in the European Union in the 2016 referendum, he has since cultivated a reputation as an outspoken Brexiter. Despite that change of heart, or perhaps because of it, he remains suspect in many Conservatives’ eyes.
He backed Ms. May’s proposed Brexit deal and, like most in the cabinet, has condemned the challenge to her leadership, saying that she is the best person to make sure that Britain leaves the European Union on March 29.