
It’s fashionable 
One, college graduates 
Unfortunately, most working-class and poor teenagers, including many who excel in high school,
Yesterday, four social scientists released the results of 
The researchers sent personalized packets of information to hundreds of high-performing, lower-income students in Michigan. A letter inside encouraged them to apply to the University of Michigan, one of the best public universities in the country. The letter also promised that if the students were admitted, they would receive a full scholarship, including free tuition, room and board.
In truth, the packet 
And yet the experiment nonetheless had a huge effect.
Some 67 percent of students who received the packets applied to Michigan, compared with 26 percent of a control group of similar students who did not. And 28 percent of recipients ended up enrolling in a top university (most of them at Michigan), compared with only 13 percent of the control group. Many members of the control group didn’t attend any college, despite being excellent high-school students.
This simple approach obviously won’t come close to solving the college gap between rich and poor. (Doing that will require 
It shows that many, many more students from modest backgrounds should be attending universities from which they’re likely to graduate — and that getting them to enroll isn’t very difficult. It is a matter of encouraging them to do so and making sure the financial aid remains available.
“Bottom line: we can help close income gaps in college attendance,” 
Susan Dynarski, one of the researchers, told me yesterday that she had already heard from many people interested in starting a similar program at other colleges. I would hope so.
To learn more, you can read 
And you can read 
The basic problem hasn’t changed for months. The British public voted for Brexit, which makes any reconsideration very difficult. And the pro-Brexit forces have always oversold its benefits, which makes any actual agreement seem 