
As the lawmaker approached the large ornamental club in the middle of Britain’s House of Commons on Monday night, his fellows chattered in the benches. When he hoisted it up, a clamor erupted: “Disgrace,” “Expel him,” “No!”
But when he turned and tried to walk out with the ceremonial mace, John Bercow, the speaker of the House, said, “Order. Put it back. No, no.”
At the exit, a white-haired woman emerged to grab the scepter from the offending member of Parliament, Lloyd Russell-Moyle. He gave it up without a fight, and she ended the brief rebellion in Parliament, an abortive heist that reflected the current chaos in Britain’s government, where confusion — about policy, authority and a mace — has in recent days reigned.
A five-foot, silver-gilt symbol, mostly.
The mace, decorated with roses, thistles and pearls, represents the royal authority of the crown, from which the Houses of Parliament derive their own authority. The object dates to 
Each day that the House of Commons meets, the sergeant-at-arms — another historical role which dates to the 1400s — brings the mace into the House at the beginning and end of a sitting. The House of Lords has its own maces, one from Charles’s era and another from that of William III. Without the mace in the room, 
“In democracies you have these symbolic pieces of theater, pieces of history,” said Tony Travers, a professor of government at the London School of Economics. “It’s a physical manifestation of the authority of the crown, the crown being the head of state.”
Mr. Travers compared it to the Constitution in the United States: a symbolic, historical object that legitimizes the government. Without a written constitution, he said, Britain has other objects, like the mace: “a long metal piece of ceremonial jewelry.”
On several occasions, Britons angry with their government have brandished the mace and dismayed their peers.
In 1930, a member of the Labour Party named John Beckett, upset about the suspension of a minister, 
Forty years later, as members of the Labour Party began to sing in celebration of a one-vote victory in the House of Commons, a Conservative minister, Michael Heseltine, seized the mace and “waved it aggressively toward the Labour benches,” 
Mr. Heseltine, now a member of the House of Lords, 
“I picked up the mace, offered it to the Labour benches and said, ‘You have abused the authority of the House, you better have the symbol as well,’” he said. “And then I put it down again.”
And in 1988, a Scottish member of the Labour Party, Ron Brown, picked up the mace during a debate on a poll tax — and unintentionally dropped it, 
In each instance, Mr. Travers said, grabbing the mace was “considered grave disorder,” because “anybody who picks up or touches the mace is kind of rebelling against the underlying function of the House of Commons.”
After months of bitter negotiations with the European Union, Prime Minister Theresa May had planned to have Parliament vote on her deal to withdraw Britain from the bloc on Tuesday. Facing a humiliating defeat, she delayed the vote on Monday, 
Mrs. May is at odds with members of her own party, the Conservatives, as well as the opposition Labour Party, to which Mr. Russell-Moyle belongs. After his ejection from the House of Commons on Monday, he 
“Thankfully they haven’t locked me in the Tower of London but if they had I’d expect May to be in the cell next to me for her treatment of Parliament today,” he said. “I’m allowed back tomorrow after my symbolic protest against this government, wish May wasn’t allowed back.”
Mr. Travers said that the stalemate was not dissimilar from standoffs between the president and Congress in the United States, but that the prime minister requires the confidence of her party — something Mrs. May has struggled to retain.
Yes, especially in countries that have histories with Britain.
Canada has a 101-year-old mace that is
And the United States has its own mace for the House of Representatives, made in 1841 and topped with a silver globe and eagle. The original American version was destroyed in the War of 1812, when British forces burned down parts of the Capitol.