
LONDON — Add this head-scratching prediction to the list of campaign-trail utterances made by Prime Minister Boris Johnson: Brexit is sure to inspire a baby boom if he remains in office.
Mr. Johnson made the remarks in an interview published 
He has characterized a vote for his Conservative Party as the only way “to get Brexit done.” But he’s now suggesting that the British, in a frenzy of celebration, would rush to procreate after the country left the European Union and the results would mirror a supposed baby boom in 2012, which he attributed to the London Olympics that year, when he was the city’s mayor. 
“Cupid’s darts will fly once we get Brexit done,” he was quoted as saying. “Romance will bloom across the whole nation. There was one after the Olympics, as I correctly prophesied in a speech in 2012, it was quite amazing. There was a big baby boom.”
The remarks — immediately derided by commentators and social media users — counter all evidence that the drawn-out Brexit process has traumatized the country and divided it into warring camps such as the Leavers, the Remainers, the 
The comments occurred amid a feverish, last-minute dash across the country by politicians to persuade voters ahead of Election Day. They also came on the same day that Mr. Johnson promised to limit immigration if his party gained a majority, by making it harder 
The baby-boom prediction stood out in an election campaign that has been overshadowed by scandals and concerns, including fears of 
But the Brexit babies comments were indicative of Mr. Johnson’s proclivity for making outlandish, often-dubious, claims that lead to 
For instance, he said in 
“I think that women’s liberation, female suffrage, probably wouldn’t have happened, if it hadn’t been for the motorcar,” he opined.
Mr. Johnson was also raked over the coals for a 1995 article in which he described the children of single mothers as “ill-raised, ignorant, aggressive and illegitimate,” and referred to single mothers as “uppity and irresponsible women.”
In this latest case, a senior reporter at the newspaper that published Mr. Johnson’s prediction, Rosamund Urwin, promptly called it “nonsense” during on a segment on the BBC on Sunday. Others called it “silly.”
There’s one very clear reason to doubt the idea of an Olympic baby boom, 
Any Olympics-inspired babies would have arrived in 2013, 
What’s more, the high in 2012 was not a one-off boom but the culmination of a yearslong trend. “It’s just been gradually building up,” Paul Vickers, a statistician at the O.N.S., 
The uplift 
And though its effects 
The Sunday Times also disputed the Olympic angle on the number of babies born in 2012: It said, apparently tongue in cheek, that the cause was linked to the release of the erotic novel “Fifty Shades of Grey.”
Peter Robins contributed reporting.