
LONDON — Nigel Farage, who has fared better in fighting for Brexit than in winning elections, has said he will not run for a seat in Parliament in Britain’s general election in December. But he vowed to lead his Brexit Party in a vigorous campaign that 
Mr. Farage said in a BBC interview broadcast on Sunday that he had concluded that he could advance the country’s exit from the European Union better by campaigning on behalf of his populist party’s other candidates than by contesting a seat himself.
“I don’t want to be in politics for the rest of my life,” Mr. Farage said, adding that he had thought “very hard about this.”
By giving up his own ambitions for Parliament, Mr. Farage, who has made much of 
He said he planned to campaign aggressively across the country against Mr. Johnson’s Brexit agreement, which is a central plank of the prime minister’s election manifesto and that of his Conservative Party.
Mr. Farage’s fierce criticism of Mr. Johnson’s deal, as well as his constant reminders that the prime minister broke his promise to leave the European Union by Oct. 31, could weaken the Conservatives by splitting the pro-Brexit vote and tipping some close seats to the opposition Labour Party.
“If Boris Johnson was going for a genuine Brexit, we wouldn’t need to fight against him in this election,” Mr. Farage said in the BBC interview. “If Boris is determined to stick to this new E.U. treaty, then that is not Brexit.”
Mr. Johnson, in a separate interview, apologized on Sunday for failing to achieve Brexit by the deadline of Oct. 31, as he had promised again and again that he would. 
“It’s a matter of deep regret,” the prime minister told 
But he blamed Parliament for not approving the agreement he had negotiated with the European Union, which 
Some political commentators said Mr. Farage, who spent two decades promoting Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union and has been one of the loudest pro-Brexit voices since the 2016 referendum, was declining to run in the December election because he could not win. 
Mr. Farage ran unsuccessfully for Parliament seven times as a candidate for the U.K. Independence Party. 
After mostly lying low during Britain’s recent political upheaval, Mr. Farage has suddenly re-emerged as a noisy presence in British politics.
Last Thursday, he welcomed a call from Mr. Trump to his London radio show, during which Mr. Trump claimed that Mr. Johnson’s deal with Brussels would make it impossible for Britain to negotiate a trade agreement with the United States — one of the prime selling points of Mr. Johnson’s Brexit policy.
“I don’t wish to cast any aspersions on the president of the United States,” Mr. Johnson said in his Sky interview. “But in that respect, he is patently in error.”
The president also urged Mr. Johnson to ally with Mr. Farage in a pro-Brexit coalition. Four parties are competing in the Dec. 12 election, 
But Mr. Johnson has rebuffed Mr. Farage’s proposal of an alliance between the Brexit and Conservative parties because Mr. Farage has made it contingent on the prime minister’s dropping his Brexit agreement. Abandoning the agreement, Mr. Johnson said, would put the Labour leader, Jeremy Corbyn, in 10 Downing Street.
Without an alliance, Mr. Farage has said, the party will field 600 candidates, several of whom could jeopardize Conservative-held seats in closely fought districts.