
LONDON — British lawmakers are scheduled on Tuesday to debate and vote on the detailed legislation for 
Brexit is scheduled to take effect on Oct. 31, but Mr. Johnson has yet to receive Parliament’s support for the agreement, making the day’s events a major test of whether he has the necessary backing to make his plan a reality. 
By the end of the week, if not Tuesday night, it will be clear whether Mr. Johnson has failed in his “
There are now just nine days until that Oct. 31 deadline, but lawmakers have blocked Mr. Johnson at nearly every turn.
Here is what to expect in a crucial day for Brexit.
There are likely be two stages to the decision making in Parliament on Tuesday — first, a preliminary vote on the 
The second vote, in which the government would lay out an accelerated timetable, is intended to ram the legislation through to ensure Britain leaves the European Union by Oct. 31. It is considered the more contentious measure. 
Known formally as a program motion, the measure would give lawmakers just three days to pore over 
The stakes for the vote on the accelerated timeline are high: Mr. Johnson said on Tuesday that if lawmakers did not agree to it, he would pull the withdrawal bill and call for a new election — though that would also require the approval of Parliament. 
It is hard to imagine a scenario in which the Oct. 31 deadline is met without the compressed schedule, so defeat would be a serious blow to Mr. Johnson after his insistence that Britain would leave by that date.
But first comes the debate on the Withdrawal Agreement Bill, the legislation that sets the legal framework for Britain’s departure. Debate is scheduled to begin around 12:30 p.m. local time.
A “second reading vote” — which measures lawmakers’ support in principle but does not amount to final approval — is expected to happen around 7 p.m.
If lawmakers signal support for the bill, the vote on the government’s accelerated time frame for passing it comes next. The government hopes to hold the definitive vote on the withdrawal bill on Thursday.
If the deal manages to clear both hurdles, that sets the stage for … more hurdles. The next stage of debate begins immediately, but the bill could be derailed by votes on amendments.
Good question. Handicapping these votes is hard.
Analysts say Mr. Johnson’s chances are good on the preliminary vote for the withdrawal bill, in part because skeptical lawmakers can vote for it now but keep the option of opposing it when the final vote rolls around.
The opposition parties will not support the bill; some rebels within those parties are expected to vote for it, but it is not clear how many. That means the pressure will be on the prime minister to corral fellow Conservatives, as well as lawmakers who have recently left or been expelled from the party.
The tougher fight will be on Mr. Johnson’s bill to compress the debate into three days, with a final vote on the withdrawal bill on Thursday. That bill, which was released Monday night, is 110 pages long and accompanied by more than 300 pages of supporting documents.
Ordinarily, a matter of this size, complexity and importance would be given would give much more time — usually months — for scrutiny and debate.
Labour and other opposition parties oppose the abbreviated schedule, but so do some Conservatives.
If Mr. Johnson wins both votes, Parliament will schedule a decisive vote on the withdrawal bill on Thursday. In the interim, opponents will try to amend the bill.
Some of the amendments that lawmakers are likely to propose would be “poison pills” that are unacceptable to the government, unacceptable to the European Union, or both. In the unlikely event that Mr. Johnson were to agree to any changes in the withdrawal agreement, those changes would have to be negotiated with Brussels.
If one or more such amendments were successful, Mr. Johnson might withdraw the bill rather than force a vote on Thursday. What would happen after that is unclear.
It remains possible that the prime minister could somehow thread this needle: winning the preliminary vote on Tuesday on the withdrawal bill, winning another vote Tuesday on the compressed timetable, defeating all amendments, and then winning the final vote on the withdrawal bill.
That would be an enormous victory for Mr. Johnson on his signature issue, ensuring that Britain will, in fact, leave the European Union by Oct. 31.
The picture would look very different if Parliament refused to agree to the rushed schedule, and almost anything could happen. New elections would give Mr. Johnson an opportunity to re-establish a majority, but there is no guarantee that he would succeed in doing so; his opponents might be content to leave him in power, in a weakened state. 
Sort of, but in a different way. It’s complicated.
On Saturday, Mr. Johnson called a vote on a motion supporting his deal with Brussels. It would not have been a vote on the bill itself, nor on the legal intricacies for implementing that agreement. But it would have been an important statement of backing for the embattled prime minister and his plan.
At that point, lawmakers had not seen the withdrawal bill, and many of them were wary of what would be in it.
So over the government’s vehement objections, 
Mr. Johnson tried again on Monday to force a vote on a motion supporting his deal. But the speaker of the House of Commons, John Bercow, ruled that because nothing had changed in the intervening two days, the prime minister could not make a second attempt. 
 