
LONDON — Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Tuesday won a major vote approving in principle his new Brexit plan, but instantly faced a second and more difficult test as lawmakers threatened to derail a second bill to assure its swift passage through Parliament.
Mr. Johnson’s victory was nevertheless a significant moment in the three-year Brexit saga, coming after Parliament refused three times to endorse the blueprint of his predecessor, Theresa May, to leave the European Union. Nor had Mr. Johnson previously won any important votes in Parliament, where he has no majority.
But the looming second vote could end Mr. Johnson’s hopes of getting his plan ratified in time for Britain to leave the European Union on Oct. 31, as he has promised it will. The House of Commons is being asked to condense scrutiny of the legislation enacting one of Britain’s biggest recent decisions into just three days — a timetable that has angered many lawmakers.
Rather than accept a significant new delay, Mr. Johnson threatened to pull the legislation and demand a general election to settle, once and for all, Britain’s grinding debate on Brexit. The opposition was preparing a series of proposed amendments to the legislation, and a further delay could strengthen their hand in doing so — to such an extent that it could have the effect of unraveling the bill.
On a day that encapsulated both the high drama and recurring gridlock of the Brexit saga, Mr. Johnson implored lawmakers to pass his deal swiftly, calling it the last chance for Parliament to achieve an exit from Europe with a deal in hand. 
“We can get Brexit done and move our country on,” he said. “We can turn the page and allow this Parliament and this county to heal and to unite.”
But opposition lawmakers railed against the prime minister for trying to push through in three days a bill that would have generational consequences for Britain. Some noted that the legislation, which runs to 435 pages including supporting documents, would receive less time for scrutiny in the House of Commons 
Other lawmakers demanded assurances from Mr. Johnson on labor and environmental standards, and raised questions about whether Britain could still face a damaging exit from the European Union after a transitional period ends in 
The votes were scheduled to begin at 7 p.m. after a day of debate in Parliament. With the government frantically lobbying and the opposition still debating its response, the outcome of both votes was impossible to predict.
The gamesmanship captured the complex crosscurrents of the Brexit debate, more than three years after Britons voted to leave the European Union.
Mr. Johnson seemed to have lined up support for the deal from some members of the opposition Labour Party, which, along with a solid showing by his fellow Conservatives, could put him over the top in the first vote. 
Yet he was in danger of losing exiled members of the Conservative Party, who split with him after his threat of a no-deal Brexit, on the timing of the legislation. That, along with a party-line rejection by Labour and the Democratic Unionist Party of Northern Ireland, could leave him a handful of votes short of securing final approval of the bill by Thursday.
Slowing down the timetable for passage of the legislation would enable lawmakers to propose amendments, ranging from a second Brexit referendum to a plan to put the United Kingdom in the European Union’s customs union — a provision that helped torpedo the deal struck by Mr. Johnson’s predecessor, Theresa May. 
The odds of passing those measures was unclear. But faced with yet another delay, the government could decide, as Mr. Johnson said on Tuesday, to withdraw the legislation and try to persuade Parliament to throw the matter back to the British public in an election. That would require a two-thirds vote from lawmakers, which is far from assured.
The one-step-forward, two-steps-back nature of Tuesday’s debate was familiar. Mr. Johnson struck his agreement with the European Union last week and scheduled a rare Saturday session of Parliament to win approval for the deal.
After a surge of optimism that Mr. Johnson might eke out a victory, Parliament instead approved a last-minute amendment that delayed a vote on the deal until the legislation enacting it was made public.