
LONDON — Jacob Rees-Mogg, the leader of Britain’s House of Commons and a prominent ally of Prime Minister Boris Johnson, suggested this week that victims of the 2017 Grenfell Tower fire lacked the common sense to defy firefighters’ orders and flee the building, costing them their lives.
Nicknamed “the honorable gentleman from the 18th century,” Mr. Rees-Mogg was recently 
Mr. Johnson, who is about to formally launch the Conservative campaign, is already saddled with a reputation for being 
But his comments this week threatened to be even more damaging, casting a fire widely seen as 
A 900-page, 
Some tried to escape but were turned back by choking smoke, and others, not knowing where the fire was, feared that they would be walking into even more peril. Still others were physically unable to flee.
“If you just ignore what you’re told and leave, you are so much safer,” Mr. Rees-Mogg said on Monday in an interview with Nick Ferrari, the host of a show on LBC, a radio station. “And I think if either of us were in a fire, whatever the fire brigade said, we would leave the burning building. It just seems the common sense thing to do. And it is such a tragedy that didn’t happen.”
Late Tuesday morning, Mr. Rees-Mogg apologized, saying, “I would hate to upset the people of Grenfell if I was unclear in my comments.”
But some colleagues doubled down, with a Conservative lawmaker, Andrew Bridgen, suggesting that residents of Grenfell Tower exhibited a kind of deference common in people who were not fit, as Mr. Rees-Mogg was, to run the country.
“Jacob is a leader, he’s an authority figure,” Mr. Bridgen said in a radio interview, describing why Mr. Rees-Mogg would have made it out of the Grenfell fire alive. “We want very clever people running the country, don’t we?”
Opposition lawmakers and Grenfell survivors reacted furiously to Mr. Rees-Mogg’s remarks. Jeremy Corbyn, the opposition Labour leader, called them “crass” and “insensitive.”
“What possesses someone to react to an entirely avoidable tragedy like Grenfell by saying the victims lacked common sense?” 
Ahmed Chellat, who lost five relatives in the fire, 
Mr. Rees-Mogg had been responding to a question about whether racist or classist policies had anything to do with the 2017 blaze, the deadliest in Britain in generations. The fire was fed by flammable cladding on the facade of the building that survivors have charged was installed to beautify their public housing project for the benefit of wealthy neighbors in west London.
Mr. Rees-Mogg’s double-breasted suits, antique diction and penchant for polysyllabic words have long endeared him to a nostalgic set of Conservatives pining for the return of a different Britain. He has opposed climate change legislation, same-sex marriage, large-scale immigration and increased spending on social services, while supporting corporate tax cuts.
As a lawmaker with impeccable pro-Brexit bona fides and a wide following on the right wing of the party, he is among the most prominent cabinet ministers in Mr. Johnson’s government.
But Mr. Rees-Mogg’s unabashed elitism and past support for a no-deal Brexit that economists say would do serious harm have made him a frequent target of critics who would like to make him, not Mr. Johnson, the emblem of the government. 
An Oxford graduate who named his sixth child Sixtus, Mr. Rees-Mogg recently had his 
His remarks on Grenfell were the second time in days that his party found itself in hot water over the disaster. Last week, during a debate in the House of Commons over the release of the government report, Mr. Corbyn wore a bright green tie, a color long used to honor victims of the fire.
Conservative lawmakers treated it as a fashion blunder and laughed at Mr. Corbyn, eliciting an angry response from Theresa May, Mr. Johnson’s predecessor, who had to remind her colleagues that it was for Grenfell.