
LONDON — Threats of sexual violence. Death threats. Racist abuse. 
Female members of Britain’s Parliament have long said that this type of 
“I am exhausted by the invasion into my privacy and the nastiness and intimidation that has become commonplace,” Heidi Allen, a member of Parliament, wrote in a 
Ms. Allen is among more than 50 members of Parliament, including 18 women, who have said they will not stand in the Dec. 12 election. And while that ratio roughly mirrors Parliament’s overall gender breakdown, women’s rights activists worry that this climate could deter other women from entering national politics, reversing a trend that had brought the proportion of female lawmakers in the House of Commons to an all-time high of 
Rights groups also say that an increasingly bitter political climate surrounding Brexit has fueled the flames — as did recent remarks by Prime Minister Boris Johnson on the treatment of female lawmakers.
In a parliamentary debate in September, 
Many women in Parliament — both those who will be candidates in the election and those who will not — say they have been subject to online abuse, threats and intimidation. 
“Sexually charged rhetoric has been prevalent in the online abuse of female MPs, with threats to rape us and referring to us by our genitalia,” Caroline Spelman, a Conservative lawmaker who is stepping down after 22 years in Parliament, wrote in an 
The 
“Although we find ourselves being women in public life in a very different way to you,” the letter read, “we share understanding of the abuse and intimidation which is now so often used as a means of disparaging women in public office from getting on with our very important work.” 
Since her engagement to Prince Harry in 2017, the duchess has been a 
Women of color in Parliament were subjected to the highest levels of online abuse during that campaign, the report found. And nearly half of the tweets examined were directed at Diane Abbott, a Labour lawmaker who was the first black woman elected to Parliament. 
Some male politicians have also experienced threats of violence, online abuse and attacks in recent years. A Labour member of Parliament had homophobic graffiti sprayed on his office last month and in 2010 another Labour lawmaker was stabbed by a constituent.
Some in Britain worry that the vitriolic words against lawmakers could spill over into violence, with many citing the 2016 
Catherine Anderson, the chief executive of the Jo Cox Foundation, a community-building charity that was created 
Broader concerns have been raised over the potential for violence over an election in which Brexit is such a bitterly divisive issue. A study last month from the 
It is a dynamic that, aside from posing a threat to individual lawmakers, risks damaging the country’s political system, Ms. Anderson said. “The immediate threat is to people’s physical safety, but the long-term damage to democracy and to our institutions is another level of worry,” she said. 
After Ms. Cox’s murder, the government of Mr. Johnson’s predecessor, Theresa May, published a report on intimidation in public life that made recommendations for the government, social media companies, political parties, the police and the news media to help combat the threats. 
But some say the divisive and vitriolic nature of language used in Parliament itself has helped fuel the abuse. 
When leaders 
The targeting of women, she said — particularly women of color — “is directly related to bias, hatred, inequality that were already there but are being turbocharged by this irresponsible leadership.”
Ms. Mayer cited Mr. Johnson’s dismissive comments in Parliament. “When that is the kind of example that you are getting from the supposed first among equals, you are very far from Parliament doing its job,” she said. 
Yet despite the persistence of abuse, many female lawmakers are vowing to continue on.
Rachel Reeves, a Labour lawmaker whose book, “Women of Westminster,” focuses on female lawmakers navigating the male-dominated world of Parliament, said that while Britain’s first female lawmakers a century ago had their own steep challenges, she believed they would be shocked by how women are treated today. 
“But the way to respond to this,” said Ms. Reeves, who has been in Parliament for nearly a decade, is “to show angry people and that violent language isn’t going to stop us from standing up for what we believe in.” 