
“Super Saturday” was to have been the decisive moment for 
After hours of raucous debate, the speaker of the House of Commons, John Bercow, announced that the votes were in — for another delay. As with so many earlier “pivotal” moments gone awry in the convoluted saga of Britain’s attempt to quit the European Union, this one only introduced a new array of unknowns.
Under earlier legislation adopted by Parliament to prevent a no-deal Brexit, the vote compelled Mr. Johnson to ask the European Union 
But then the entire Brexit deal that Mr. Johnson unexpectedly brought back
In the end it was not opposition to Mr. Johnson’s deal that blocked it, but lack of trust in Mr. Johnson. Upon taking office, the grandiloquent prime minister had attempted several end-runs around Parliament in the evident hope of getting to the Oct. 31 deadline without a deal, an outcome most responsible officials and experts — but not Mr. Johnson and his coterie of “hard Brexiteers” — deem disastrous. Many members of Parliament feared that if his deal was passed, he and his allies would tie up 
So Parliament took up an 
That would ensure an orderly divorce with the European Union — but not the end of the process. There would remain months of detailed negotiations on the mechanisms and details of disentangling four decades of association, most likely to be preceded by another national election. The massive demonstrations outside Parliament on Saturday made clear that every step of the way would be bitterly contested.
In the three years since the British voted by a narrow margin to quit the bloc, the debate has gone far beyond the simplistic promises of Brexiteers like Mr. Johnson, who painted a rosy and unrealistic picture of Britain reviving its past glories and saving dollops of money outside the Union. Yet greater awareness of the true complexity and cost of Brexit has not dimmed the passion of those who despise the very idea of sharing sovereignty with the Continent.
What has been consistently clear to a majority in Parliament and to the European Union is that an exit without a deal cannot be allowed. However raucous and impassioned the debates, the Parliament has rebuffed any efforts by Mrs. May or Mr. Johnson to short-circuit democratic process, as it did again on Saturday. The decision on Brexit will affect Britain for generations, and all the delays and debates, however acutely frustrating, are better than a rushed or questionable exit.
It may be that the moment has come, and Mr. Johnson will get his deal through Parliament this week. Or not. Either way, decisions taken in the coming days must not be a surrender to “Brexit fatigue” on either side. Too much is at stake, and too much more lies ahead.