
BOREHAMWOOD, England — There are many theories about how Boris Johnson, 
They were destined to lead thanks to their drive and privileged backgrounds, some say. Or they were best able to tap into a public mood that had soured against the European Union. 
But a good many watchers of 
An institution in Britain, 
It’s a simple show. Two captains — 
Political guests are subject to continual mockery, especially if they have a scandalous past or their policies appear muddled. But for those willing to be laughed at, and to laugh at themselves, the show has become a way to endear themselves to the public in a country where self-deprecation is an art form. 
The show is mentioned repeatedly in profiles of Johnson and Rees-Mogg. Johnson’s appearances were “pop culture classics,” wrote Sonia Purnell in “Just Boris,” a biography. “In the end his TV career may have proved his greatest electoral asset,” she added. 
Johnson’s first appearance, in 1998, occurred when he was a journalist and failed Conservative Party parliamentary 
During Johnson’s appearance, he was asked about a 
Johnson flailed around
“I’m not ashamed of it,” he said.
“What are you not ashamed of there, Boris?” he was asked.
“Whatever there is not to be ashamed of,” he added. The audience howled with laughter.
transcript
Description: A clip of Boris Johnson’s first appearance on “Have I Got News For You” in 1998. Credit: BBC One, courtesy of Hat Trick Productions
Johnson ended up appearing six more times, honing his bumbling persona in the 
Meanwhile, his political star rose. He won election to the House of Commons in 2001, then became mayor of London (he stopped appearing on “Have I Got News For You” after announcing his candidacy for that role). He became prime minister this July following discontent over how his predecessor, Theresa May, had handled negotiations to extricate Britain from the European Union.
Emily Rayner, a civil servant standing in the queue for a recent taping of the show in Borehamwood, a commuter town north of London, said she knew people who had voted for Johnson “because they thought he’s got character, he’s been on ‘Have I Got News for You.’” 
Another leading Brexit voice, Rees-Mogg, the House of Commons leader, also got widespread attention from the show, which introduced many people to his 
Nigel Farage, the leader of 
For those disinclined to favor Johnson, Rees-Mogg, Brexit, or all three, the show has become an easy target for finger-wagging.
“‘Have I Got News for You’ is partially responsible for this whole mess,” 
Some of the complaints seem far-fetched. The show can hardly be accused of being pro-Brexit or pro-Boris, rarely passing up an opportunity to send up either. 
On Tuesday, after Johnson accepted the European Union’s offer of a further delay to the Brexit process, 
Hislop, one of the captains, dismissed the idea that the show was behind Johnson’s success. “If we ask someone on and people like them, that is up to people,” he said in a telephone interview, pointing out he had never given Johnson an easy ride.
(In a 2014 
The show had been blamed for the rise of politicians on the left too, Hislop said. He expected criticism soon if Jess Phillips, another popular guest, became leader of Britain’s Labour Party. “If in 10 years’ time, the country is falling apart due to the fact Jess Phillips has moved violently to the left and totally screwed everything up, there will be people who’ll say, ‘She’s only popular because she was on “Have I Got News for You,”’” he said. 
Jimmy Mulville, co-founder of Hat Trick Productions, the company behind the show, said he didn’t lose sleep over Johnson’s or Rees-Mogg’s rise. If anything “gives me cause for concern” about the show, he said, it was when politicians have used it to rehabilitate their public image. Alastair Campbell, Tony Blair’s former spin doctor who was accused of beefing up the case for Britain and America to invade Iraq, had done just that, Mulville said.
Still, he said, such guests were too high-profile for the show to turn down. 
The program sometimes makes headlines itself. Not long after the Britain voted for Brexit in 2016, Gary Lineker, a former soccer star, made a joke on the show about how Brexit may not be completed for 10 years. “That’s not fair,” he said. “Most of the people who voted for it will be dead by then.” It prompted outrage from some 
Last year, “Have I Got News For You” was accused of 
At a recent taping, the guests weren’t controversial: Layla Moran, a member of the Liberal Democrats and Sara Pascoe, a comedian.
But some comments did cause sharp intakes of breath from the more sensitive members of the audience. At one point, there was discussion about the Jeffrey Epstein scandal that included scathing sarcasm about Prince Andrew’s association with Epstein (the BBC’s on-site lawyer, who watches all tapings for potential libel, didn’t appear to object). 
Boris Johnson may not have been a guest, but he was a presence throughout. 
The first quiz round was called “Boris’ Brexit Balls-ups” and made fun of his most recent embarrassments,
The host played a 