
LONDON — Prime Minister 
 Mr. Johnson had hoped to persuade lawmakers to agree on Monday in principle with his revised Brexit agreement, struck with the European Union last week in Brussels, signaling what many hoped would finally resolve an issue that has divided the country and its warring politicians for more than three years.
But Mr. Bercow, harking back to a critical decision he made earlier in the year, ruled that the vote could not go ahead because Parliament had considered the same measure on Saturday and its rules forbid the introduction of the same bill more than once.
Describing the attempt to stage the vote as “repetitive and disorderly,” Mr. Bercow said that the government had failed to show respect to Parliament by bringing back the same question after just 49 hours.
Though a blow for Mr. Johnson, the decision has limited practical impact because the government on Tuesday will effectively introduce the same measure with 
It may or may not be a defining moment in the Brexit saga, but after the chaos and confusion of recent months, the vote could provide at least a little clarity by showing whether Mr. Johnson has enough lawmakers on his side to have a shot at ratifying his plan by Oct. 31, as he has promised.
What happens on Tuesday is anyone’s guess. Mr. Johnson hopes he can succeed in winning Parliament’s approval for his deal, after Mrs. May failed three times with hers.
Though the foreign secretary, Dominic Raab, on Sunday predicted that there would be enough support for Mr. Johnson’s plan, the numbers are so close that no one can be certain of the outcome.
If Mr. Johnson’s plan wins, the government will face a second, critical test when it puts forward an accelerated timetable for the legislation, designed to ram it through Parliament in three days
If the accelerated timetable passes, it would be a good sign for Mr. Johnson, who has promised repeatedly to extract Britain from the European Union by Halloween.
But Mr. Johnson has so far lost every important vote he has held in Parliament since he became prime minister in July.
So his only hope of avoiding that extension taking place would be to rush the Brexit legislation through Parliament
A rejection of Mr. Johnson’s timetable would make a third delay of Brexit almost inevitable, providing the European Union countries agree to grant one, something most analysts say it would do to avoid the economic dislocation of Britain leaving the bloc without any deal.
And the fallout from a loss on the timetable vote could be quite significant, in that it would give Mr. Johnson’s opponents in Parliament
Mr. Johnson’s critics would like to attach amendments to his plan, particularly a confirmatory referendum or keeping Britain in the European Union customs territory. But Mr. Johnson is fiercely opposed to both ideas, and the loss of the vote on the timetable would indicate his opponents lack the numbers to attach the referendum or customs amendments.
While lawmakers have come close to embracing both in the past, this time the stakes will be higher and the context different, with many Britons frustrated at the delays and gridlock over Brexit.
Mr. Johnson will present them as wrecking-ball amendments. If they pass, he might withdraw the legislation altogether and demand a general election — something opposition parties have so far denied him.
His Brexit plan also needs approval from the European Parliament but, given all the uncertainty in Britain, it has decided not to vote on the proposal this week at its plenary session. The European Parliament may consider approval it at a special session next week if it has been ratified by Britain’s lawmakers.