
LUXEMBOURG — The British, Luxembourgish and European Union flags, ironed and pristine, were set behind two lecterns on a warm, sunny afternoon in the cobbled courtyard outside the Luxembourg prime minister’s office.
The press was arranged in a semicircle, cameras at the front, ready for a news conference about negotiations over Britain’s expected departure from the European Union.
But when Prime Minister Boris Johnson of Britain and Luxembourg’s Xavier Bettel, his counterpart, appeared, they could hear the loud boos from a few dozen protesters behind a fence, who were chanting, “Tell the truth, stop the coup!”
Mr. Bettel walked Mr. Johnson to the exit and returned alone, visibly agitated.
Then he took questions, gesticulating toward an empty lectern and chiding an invisible Mr. Johnson.
“You can’t hold people’s future hostage for party political gains,” Mr. Bettel said. “Your people, our people count on you. But the clock is ticking, use your time wisely.”
It was yet another moment of odd political theater in the on-again, off-again negotiations over Brexit, which included a working lunch on Monday with Jean-Claude Juncker, the president of the European Commission, as well as the meeting with Mr. Bettel.
Mr. Johnson has suggested that he may have an acceptable alternative to the Brexit deal that his predecessor, Theresa May, reached with the bloc. But European officials say he has offered nothing new, and Monday’s meetings ended as so many have before — in stalemate.
“There are no concrete proposals for the moment on the table and I won’t give agreement to ideas,” Mr. Bettel said.
At the news conference, diplomats said in interviews, Mr. Johnson was put off by the bad optics of the protesters outside the gates. But his request to hold the event indoors was rebuffed by the Luxembourgish team, which said there was not a readily available room indoors that could accommodate the press corps. They said they did not want to select a small number of journalists to attend.
After refusing to attend the news conference, Mr. Johnson spoke instead to British broadcasters at the residence of his country’s ambassador, insisting that an agreement over the terms of Brexit was still possible before a meeting of European Union leaders on Oct. 17 and Oct. 18.
Mr. Johnson has said that he would rather take Britain out of the European Union without an agreement than use the deal drafted with Mrs. May.
In particular, he is trying to renegotiate the so-called 
Mr. Johnson’s government has floated a plan to keep the border free for some things, mostly agricultural products, and the bloc’s negotiators have signaled they are open to new ideas. But European Union officials say the British have yet to offer any specifics.
One proposal that the bloc might well accept, and that Mr. Johnson is still weighing, is to place parts of the Northern Ireland economy into an “all-Ireland” zone. That would presumably subject Northern Ireland to European Union rules and standards, even as it remains a part of the United Kingdom, while preserving the open border.
This approach was rejected by Mrs. May, who said it would make Northern Ireland a de facto part of the European Union and its free-trade area, effectively fragmenting the United Kingdom.
Publicly, Mr. Johnson has said that while a deal is desirable, he would rather be “dead in a ditch” than have another extension to the deadline for withdrawing from the bloc, which is now Oct. 31. Parliament, however, passed a law last week Parliament requiring Britain to seek an extension on Oct. 19 if no agreement has been reached.
For the European Union, a no-deal Brexit is seen as an avoidable train wreck, a disaster scenario that could cause severe damage and cost billions in a bloc whose economy is already in 
For Britain, a no-deal Brexit would most likely cause all kinds of problems. The government itself has warned of 
There have been mixed signals from the British side. Before the meetings on Monday, a British official said progress was being made, but Mr. Johnson also chose some unexpected imagery to demonstrate that he believes Britain would be just fine if it left the European Union on Oct. 31 without a deal.
Speaking to
“The madder Hulk gets, the stronger Hulk gets,” Mr. Johnson told The Mail on Sunday. “Hulk always escaped, no matter how tightly bound in he seemed to be — and that is the case for this country. We will come out on Oct. 31 and we will get it done.”
Mr. Johnson’s comments were quickly rebutted by, among others, Mark Ruffalo, the actor who played the Hulk in a series of movies for over a decade.
“Boris Johnson forgets that the Hulk only fights for the good of the whole,” 
On Monday, Downing Street insisted that the government would obey the law laid down by Parliament on an extension, but also that it would leave the European Union on Oct. 31 come what may. How these contradictory positions could be reconciled was not explained.
“This wouldn’t happen in Luxembourg,” Mr. Bettel quipped next to the empty lectern.
Protesters cheered.