
PARIS — “It felt like a decision for the past, not the future,” said the New York art dealer 
“I thought of having a second leg in Europe since a few years, but Brexit did accelerate that process,” Mr. Zwirner said. “There were opportunities in Europe we weren’t grabbing in the way we should.” 
Mr. Zwirner, who describes himself as “a total anti-Brexit guy,” has just added a stately courtyard gallery in the Marais district of Paris to his spaces in New York, London and Hong Kong. The heavyweight galleries 
Mr. Zwirner does not intend to close his London gallery. “London is, after New York, the second-biggest art market in the world,” he said. “There is nothing that is going to change that anytime soon.” 
Once the premises of the revered French contemporary art dealer 
A poignant image of the interior of the Notre-Dame cathedral, 
“It’s not an arrogant arrival,” Mr. Zwirner said, adding that he expected to sell works to collections in North America, South America, Asia and the Middle East. “You don’t build galleries only to cater to the local market.”
With Brexit scheduled to happen on Oct. 31, there was plenty of talk about the growth of Paris as a hub for the international art market. It has some ground to make up.
Last year, art sales in Britain rose 8 percent, to almost $14 billion, according to the annual 
Art dealers appreciate that Paris is a gateway to major private collections in Europe, most notably the 
“We’ve seen lots of European collectors, though it would have been nice to see more Americans,” said 
Lévy Gorvy is exhibiting at FIAC for the first time, choosing it over the Frieze Masters in London. The gallery’s Paris debut was proving a commercial success, particularly at the Wednesday preview, when it found a buyer for a 19-foot plexiglass mural that the French Pop artist 
But smaller dealers are far less sanguine about the potential for upheaval. Among them is the 
Soft Opening was showing fantastically architectural sculptures of children’s cakes by Gina Fischli, a Swiss artist based in London. The pieces, made of baked polymer clay, were priced from 3,500 to 5,500 euros, or $3,900 to $6,100.
“Everyone is feeling a bit nervous,” said the gallery’s director, 
Wouldn’t a low-tax, low-tariff Britain be a good thing for the London art market? “Brexit could well affect artists in a detrimental way,” Ms. Marsh said. “What’s good for art collectors isn’t necessarily good for everyone else.”
Whatever happens with Brexit, the combination of art events in Paris — FIAC, a destination art fair supported by satellite attractions like the 
For many, the choice between London and Paris ultimately comes down to emotion.
The New York dealer Essex Street was among the 
“At Art Basel, I do it for the fair. At any other art fair, I go for the city,” said the gallery’s director, Maxwell Graham. “And I love Paris.”