
LONDON — 
Sky News has introduced 
For example: “Will this ever end?” Or: “
Britain has devoured itself in a collective frenzy. An old political party, the Conservatives, is hellbent on delivering something that is likely to break up the United Kingdom and certainly damage its economy. The party equates this outcome with “freedom.” In its integrity-free leader, Prime Minister Boris Johnson, it perceives a “statesman.” The id has taken over. This has nothing to do with the rational mind.
In a moment of euphoria, quickly dissipated, after Johnson concluded an agreement with the European Union 
Where is Monty Python when needed? This must surely qualify as the most overlooked detail in the voluminous Brexit annals.
That Johnson deal has now stalled because the British Parliament, having approved it, refused to be railroaded by him into passing within three days the 110-page bill, with hundreds more pages of supporting documents, that would turn it into law and impact the lives of generations of British citizens. This is what’s known as a responsible decision.
As a result, it’s almost certain the deadline of Oct. 31, eight days away, will not be met; and the fate of Brexit tumbles into 2020, assuming the European Union grants an extension.
“
The prime minister, who has no majority in Parliament, always saw Brexit as a means, not an end. It was the means to become prime minister. But now that he has hitched his wagon to that Sisyphean mission, he finds himself cornered.
Britain is stuck. The Conservatives are in government, but they are not in power. The fantasy voted for in 2016 is not the reality of 2019. There was a democratic mandate for Brexit, albeit one based heavily on lies, more than three years ago. That was then. Democracies are exercises in constant reassessment. The core reason nobody has been able to deliver Brexit is it makes no sense.
As a British friend wrote me recently, “I’m just saying if I narrowly decided to order fish at a restaurant that was known for chicken, but said it was happy to offer fish, and so far I’ve been waiting three hours, and two chefs who promised to cook the fish had quit, and the third one is promising to deliver the fish in the next five minutes whether it’s cooked or not, or indeed still alive, and all the waiting staff have spent the last few hours arguing about whether I wanted battered cod, grilled salmon, jellied eels or dolphin kebabs, and if large parts of the restaurant appeared to be on fire but no one was paying attention to it because they were all arguing about fish, I would quite like, just once, to be asked if I definitely still wanted fish.”
Johnson, having failed, needs to ask the country if it still wants fish. That’s called a general election. As Jo Swinson, the leader of the Liberal Democrats, said, the issue must be “taken back to the public.” The sooner that happens, the better for 