
LONDON
Labour members of Parliament said they would push to attach an amendment to whatever agreement Prime Minister Boris Johnson brings back from Brussels, which would require him to let the British people vote on whether to accept his deal and leave the European Union — or stay put.
The last time 
For those Britons still traumatized by their country’s decision to leave Europe in June 2016, a second referendum has long beckoned as the ultimate do-over — a chance to put three years of turmoil, division, and political paralysis behind them by essentially saying to their European neighbors, “never mind.”
“It’s a definitive end to the Brexit nightmare,” said Mr. Kyle, whose seaside district in East Sussex voted to remain in the European Union.
Mr. Kyle argued that the case for a second vote had strengthened because any agreement struck by Mr. Johnson would likely represent a harder form of Brexit than the deal negotiated by his predecessor, Theresa May, and far harder than anything proposed by the Leave side
When Mr. Johnson presented his proposal to the president of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, he characterized Mrs. May’s deal as a “bridge to a proposed future relationship with the E.U. in which the U.K. could be closely integrated with the E.U. customs arrangements and would align with E.U. law in many areas.”
“That proposed future relationship,” Mr. Johnson wrote, “is not the goal of the current U.K. government.”
Given how the terms of Brexit have hardened — to say nothing of how far the concept has evolved since the binary choice offered voters in 2016 — Mr. Kyle said the public ought to have another chance to vote.
Phil Wilson, a Labour M.P. who represents a district in northeast England that voted to leave Europe, said he was not sure his constituents would vote for Brexit again, given their fears about the potential impact on their children’s futures. 
“In 2016, people, yes, did vote to leave, but they didn’t vote how to leave,” he said at a briefing organized by the Foreign Press Association.
Critics, including Mr. Johnson, have opposed another referendum as a cynical effort by those who lost in 2016 to overturn the democratic will of the people. Even those who regret Britain’s decision to leave say a second vote would likely produce an outcome as close as in 2016, when the margin was 52 percent to 48 percent, whichever side prevailed. 
That would settle little, they say, and could actually make matters worse.
“There is a genuine fear of the polarization that might result from a referendum, particularly if the result were turned around,” said Timothy Bale, a professor of politics at Queen Mary University of London. “People who voted to leave would feel that Brexit had been stolen from them.”
Still, the overwhelming majority of polls show that if Britons voted again, they would opt to remain in Europe. That is less a result of people changing their minds
Even among the 15 percent or so of people who have changed their minds, “More Leavers have switched to Remain, particularly among young working women with children and working-class voters,” said John Kerr, a member of the House of Lords who served as Britain’s ambassador to the United States and the European Union and who is a vocal proponent of a new vote.
Proponents of a referendum point to new studies showing that the plan being proposed by Mr. Johnson would hurt the British economy more than the one Mrs. May negotiated and failed to get through Parliament.
Mrs. May’s agreement could have left all of the United Kingdom temporarily in the same customs territory as the European Union, aligning Britain with many of Europe’s regulations until a trade deal was reached. Mr. Johnson’s proposal would remove Britain from the customs union, leaving only Northern Ireland in a hybrid status in which it adhered to many of Europe’s regulations while leaving the customs union along with Britain.
The Johnson plan would reduce income per capita in Britain by an estimated 2.5 percent, relative to staying in the European Union, according to The U.K. in a Changing Europe, a research group that tracks Brexit issues. That compares to a 1.7 percent reduction under Mrs. May’s plan, and a 3.3 percent reduction if Britain left without any deal, as Mr. Johnson has repeatedly threatened.
The challenge for pro-referendum forces is finding the votes in Parliament. They have reasons for hope: Mr. Johnson’s threat to leave the European Union by Oct. 31, even without a deal, ignited a rebellion in his own Conservative Party, leading the government to purge 21 of the party’s lawmakers.
Of those, nine voted for a referendum last April and three voted against. That leaves a pool of 10 votes, including Amber Rudd, who resigned from Mr. Johnson’s Cabinet because of what she said was his drive for a no-deal Brexit. But, as the vote counters concede, that still leaves the referendum a few votes short.
Support in the Labour Party is rising as well, analysts said, in part because of uneasiness about facing Mr. Johnson’s Conservative Party in an election. But the party’s leadership remains divided. Jeremy Corbyn, the party’s leader, would rather fight a general election against Mr. Johnson first and then, if victorious, negotiate his own deal with the European Union. He could then hold a referendum offering a choice between his Brexit plan and remaining in the bloc.
Lawmakers could seek paths to a second referendum other than as an amendment to Mr. Johnson’s deal. One possibility is to hold a vote on it if the prime minister fails to bring back any deal from Brussels. Another is to revive Mrs. May’s agreement and attach it to that. But the plan’s backers acknowledge the most straightforward
“For him to believe his deal can get through the House of Commons without an amendment is a suicide mission,” Mr. Kyle said.