
Boris Johnson has a Brexit deal with the European Union! But the path ahead is still fraught with peril. What could come next? 
We enter the 
The uplands are, in fact, disappointingly cloudy.
We crash out on Halloween, thick with metaphor.
Britain is taken over by bears.
Boris is called a “saboteur.”
Jacob Rees-Mogg decides to flood the Channel Tunnel and asks civil engineers whether Europe can be made farther away.
The civil engineers say probably not.
He tweaks his top hat to a jauntier angle and calls them “saboteurs.”
The E.U., offended, rescinds its extension.
We crash out on Halloween, thick with metaphor.
Britain is taken over by wolves.
We crash out on Halloween, thick with metaphor.
Britain is taken over by geese.
Boris goes to prison for ignoring the Benn Act, which made no deal illegal.
He becomes a heroic prisoner of conscience and enjoys corresponding with female pen pals.
Sales of Spam, condensed milk and turnips — so-called Nostalgia Cuisine — skyrocket.
Europe falls to fascism! Britain, vindicated, stands alone.
Devon has a Renaissance (“Devonaissance”), which surprises it.
Right-wing bloggers call the fire “a purification of the body politic.”
Little-known “fire clause” of the Maastricht Treaty comes into play; Britain must pass a deal in the next two weeks or it will be taken over by German badgers.
A hasty general election is called. It is won by a new political party called Feudalism Now Please.
The party approaches Elizabeth II as a possible figurehead. She indicates she cannot get involved because she is above politics.
Feudalism Now Please prepares to invade Europe.
David Cameron offers to immolate himself on a pyre; he is refused.
MPs are locked inside the chamber without food and iPhones until they agree on a deal.
All the Liberal Democrats are eaten, but the remaining MPs still fail to reach a deal. The last British Parliament thus dissolves itself in blood.
Some parliamentarians are discovered alive. They survived by hiding in a cupboard and eating Michael Gove.
They decide to solve the deadlock by sacrificing a goat and reading its entrails for guidance.
They cannot agree on what the entrails say.
Douglas Carswell and Daniel Hannan, philosophical godfathers of Brexit, are kidnapped by Remainiacs and placed in Freudian psychoanalysis in north London.
They realize that Europe is really their parents.
They are contrite. They forgive their parents, but it is too late. No one forgives them.
Tanya Gold (