
LONDON — Britain might be 
This week, thousands of international collectors, dealers and curators gathered here for the 
“Geopolitically, it may seem as though the world is going sideways, but the art market chugs ahead,” said Wendy Cromwell, an art adviser based in New York, in town for “Frieze Week.”
“Primary sales are alive and well, as is the secondary market for top quality, rare, in-demand work,” added Ms. Cromwell, referring to the “primary” market for new works from commercial galleries and the “secondary” trade in re-offered pieces, such as at auction.
“Auction material is a little weak this fall with concerns around Brexit,” said Ms. Cromwell on Tuesday, unaware that 
London’s less than stellar auctions (Banksy apart) were balanced by a formidable lineup of dealer shows. Within just a square mile or so of the city center, there were new works by Mark Bradford available at Hauser & Wirth, Damien Hirst at White Cube and Peter Doig at Michael Werner. 
A survey exhibition of old and new paintings by the admired German artist Albert Oehlen at the 
Boosted by recent 
“The problem is that if there’s a good show you get 200 people wanting to buy it,” said Candace Worth, another New York art adviser, who was also in London. “There’s a huge clientele for a relatively small number of artists. It’s a pressure cooker.”
A case in point was the show at the Stephen Friedman Gallery of 20 new paintings and works on paper by the South African artist Lisa Brice, who had a solo show at Tate Britain in 2018.
“Challenging and reinterpreting traditional depictions of the female nude from the perspective of a female artist,” according to a statement from the gallery, these politically charged images were perfectly in tune with mission of many museum curators and private collectors to widen the art historical canon. They sold out for prices ranging from 9,000 pounds — about $11,000 — for drawings, to £175,000 for large-scale painted folding screens, said Mira Dimitrova, the gallery’s spokeswoman.
Works by female and African-American artists are immensely popular in today’s art market. On Wednesday, at the preview for Frieze London,
Mr. Marshall’s wryly observational “Car Girl 2,” showing a 
While the Frieze London preview was busy, there was a distinctly more subdued atmosphere at its sister fair Frieze Masters, which presents a “crossover” mix of works ranging across 6,000 years.
Old masters have proved a hard sell at this elegant event, but so too have 20th century masters. Leading “secondary market” dealers in modern art such as Lévy Gorvy and 
But on Wednesday the New York dealer Van de Weghe did sell an elaborately detailed 1986 Jean-Michel Basquiat drawing with an asking price of $2.2 million, and the London-based old master dealership Moretti Fine Art found a buyer for a little circa 1400 Florentine painting, “Christ at the Column,” priced at $200,000.
With Brexit beckoning, and major galleries such David Zwirner, White Cube and Pace either opening or 
Max Edouard Hetzler, a dealer in contemporary art who 
“There are too many museums, art colleges and collections here,” said Mr. Hetzler. “They’re not going to go away.”