
LONDON — A Scottish court ruled on Wednesday that Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s decision to suspend Parliament was unlawful, a remarkable rebuke of the government’s hard-line tactics in trying to pull Britain out of the European Union.
A panel of three judges in the Court of Session, Scotland’s highest civil court, found that 
The ruling suggested that Mr. Johnson had misled Queen Elizabeth II by telling her he wanted to shutter Parliament for banal procedural reasons, while in fact doing it to silence lawmakers opposed to his Brexit plans. It was another indication to some scholars of the prime minister’s open disdain for constitutional norms and legal obligations during the chaotic early weeks of his leadership.
It also deepened 
At least one ex-Conservative lawmaker said on Wednesday that the prime minister should resign if he lied to the queen. A few other lawmakers vowed a sit-in to reopen Parliament.
The government had said it was 
“This was an egregious case of a clear failure to comply with generally accepted standards of behavior of public authorities,” a summary of the ruling said. “It was to be inferred that the principal reasons for the prorogation were to prevent or impede Parliament holding the executive to account and legislating with regard to Brexit, and to allow the executive to pursue a policy of a no-deal Brexit without further parliamentary interference.”
The decision did not itself reopen Parliament. Instead it set up a showdown next week at Britain’s Supreme Court, which had already said it would review the case and address the question of whether to halt the suspension of Parliament.
In doing so, the Supreme Court will either endorse the Scottish court’s decision, eliciting a torrent of demands for the prime minister’s resignation, or reject it and side instead with the High Court in London, which said last week that the suspension was not open to a legal challenge.
The British government said it was “disappointed” by the Scottish court’s decision and would file an appeal, describing the suspension as “legal and necessary” for normal procedural reasons. The group of lawmakers who brought the case called for Parliament to be immediately reconvened.
The office of the speaker of the House of Commons, however, said decisions about reconvening Parliament rested in the government’s hands.
It is within a prime minister’s rights to suspend Parliament, and the High Court in London noted that there were no legal limits on how long the chamber could be closed between sessions.
But suspensions typically last only a few days, without major political implications. Sending lawmakers home as they sought to block the prime minister’s Brexit plans, on the other hand, has been described by scholars as constitutionally suspect, if not unconstitutional.
The Scottish court said parliamentary oversight was “a central pillar of the good governance principle enshrined in the constitution.”
British lawmakers also voted on Monday, the day before the shutdown took effect, to demand that the government release private messages from senior officials about why they had suspended Parliament. But on Wednesday night the government rebuffed lawmakers, saying the request was “unprecedented, inappropriate and disproportionate.” Parliament had little leverage to enforce its order while not in session.
While it is the prime minister’s decision to suspend Parliament, the measure is 
It was not clear when that order would be made.
Scottish law is different from the law in England and Wales, including on constitutional matters, scholars said on Wednesday, one reason the rulings in Scotland and in London may have conflicted.
But the government angered Scots when some unidentified Downing Street officials hinted to British news outlets that the rulings differed because the Scottish judges were politically biased. Robert Buckland, the government’s secretary of state for justice, quickly contradicted those claims, saying “our judges are renowned around the world for their excellence and impartiality.”
The team that brought the case said it had done so in Scotland because English high courts were not sitting in August.
The parliamentary shutdown began on Tuesday 
Parliament was not scheduled to sit again until mid-October, only weeks before Britain could crash out of the European Union without a deal.
When Mr. Johnson announced the suspension two weeks ago, it seemed likely to curtail the time that lawmakers had to stop him from pursuing a no-deal Brexit, an outcome that could create food and medicine shortages. But the shutdown quickly became a liability: It united a fractious opposition and emboldened lawmakers from his own Conservative Party to defy him on major votes.
And in the end, lawmakers moved quickly enough that they passed a law seeking to force Mr. Johnson, in the absence of a new Brexit deal by late October, to ask Brussels for a delay.
Mr. Johnson, though, has vowed never to ask for an extension, suggesting that he 
Adding to the government’s troubles, it was forced on Wednesday to publish an internal document warning that, if Britain left the European Union without any agreement on Oct. 31, there could be jammed ports, shortages of foods, medicines and fuel, price rises and possible public disorder.
The 
But after a vote by lawmakers on Monday, it finally released the document on Wednesday evening saying that it represented “a reasonable worst-case scenario.”
The possibilities included delays of more than two days for trucks at the port of Dover trying to embark for France, with the worst disruption lasting for three months until traffic stabilized at 50 percent to 70 percent of its current level. Passenger delays and insufficient quantities of medicines were also possible.
As for food, “there is a risk that panic buying will cause or exacerbate food supply disruption,” the document said, while in localized areas there could also be problems with water supplies because of shortages of chemicals for treatment.
“Protests and counter-protests will take place across the U.K. and may absorb significant amounts of police resource,” the document adds, “There may also be a rise in public disorder and community tensions.”