
The European Union was founded in part to promote peace, security and unity on the Continent. But what happens when nations begin to rethink their membership and focus on nationalistic interests? We asked the presidents of Ireland and Slovenia to examine what the new European unity could look like going into the third decade of the century.
We are living with the simultaneous occurrence of deep challenges: of environmental survival; of human need, in terms of the most basic essentials for full citizenship and participation; and of deepening inequality with an ever more unregulated and unaccountable concentration of wealth at the global level.
A meaningful European unity must not only deliver cohesiveness within and between its member states, but also recognize our global interdependence, and be emancipatory in offering to a diversity of peoples a renewed sense of “belonging,” a “belonging” that is intergenerational, culturally pluralist and that recognizes both the rational and spiritual sources of human rights.
It is my belief that there is an urgent need in both scholarship and a diplomacy that at present is trapped in a narrow theory of interests, to change by making new connections between economics, ecology and ethics, thus forging a new path on which we can travel together.
Our Europe must bring under control what is currently unaccountable, what is undermining public trust in democracy and what defines us as simply insatiable, individualistic consumers.
To achieve this vision requires a paradigm shift in theory, policy and practice: It demands no less than an interrogation and a departure from many of our assumptions regarding what is appropriate for achieving the economic, social and environmental well-being of our citizens. The role of the state in enhancing the lives of citizens needs to be articulated anew, and the concept of sovereignty redefined, in such a way that it is defined and understood as something that can be shared, can flow for the benefit of citizens beyond borders.
The Europe in which we will achieve unity must be one in which our shared ambitions are pursued with openness and a recognition that social and environmental considerations can no longer be subordinated to the narrow metrics of extreme market ideology.
We must do this not just for our benefit, but for the future generations to whom we, surely, have a responsibility to create a peaceful, harmonious world that is supported by a sustainable vision of economy and society, and enriched by a diversity of cultures.
The European Union is a project designed with the idealistic intent of bringing peace, security and prosperity to our shared Continent.
Since the founding of the European Union, the idea of European integration has encountered mixed reactions and results. We have experienced both excitement and disappointment. But lately, a serious obstacle to its purpose has arisen.
The current standstill is illustrated in part by the reduced efficiency of the European Union, and has subsequently deepened the disappointment of Europeans regarding the organization. Because of this gridlock and the various criticisms of the European Union, the call to abandon further integration between the member states resulting in a return to full national independence is today heard more frequently than ever before.
I remain a devout federalist, but even those of us who favor a more integrated Europe cannot be pleased with the current deadlock and the organization’s general lack of development and efficiency. When we advocate a stronger European Union, we do not do so in support of the current woeful situation, but wish to bring about a renaissance of the European idea, and embrace new concepts for its further growth.
Since we lack the necessary ingenuity and cogency, it is understandable that people retreat to their national frameworks and seek answers to all questions within those familiar settings. But this is not a step forward. Returning to the old European geopolitics is not a solution for the future but reminds us of a lesson that should not need repeating: Divisions do not empower us, but cause disunity among people who should be striving for a common goal.
The European idea is founded on conciliation and fundamental democratic values. At this point, the achievements of the European Union may not be the most illustrious, but the idea remains powerful and inspiring.
The idea of European integration is one of humankind’s finest concepts, and I am willing to stake everything on it so that our future generations can benefit.