
LONDON — Parliament was given a green light Tuesday to mount an effort to stop Britain from leaving the European Union without an agreement, in a high-pressure showdown with only a few weeks time for Parliament to act before the Brexit deadline.
In an important procedural ruling, John Bercow, the speaker of the House of Commons, agreed to allow lawmakers to try to seize control of the legislative agenda in Parliament, an area that is normally the preserve of the government.
The decision clears the way for a two-step process in which lawmakers will vote tonight on whether to wrest control from the government and then vote again tomorrow on whether to force Prime Minister Boris Johnson to seek an extension to the Oct. 31 withdrawal deadline if he fails to reach an exit agreement with the European Union.
The critical vote is the first, on the procedural measure to gain control over the agenda. If Mr. Johnson’s opponents have the votes to do that, it is considered virtually certain they will have the votes to approve the measure heading off a no-deal Brexit.
If that maneuver succeeds, however, Mr. Johnson has promised to call for a snap general election, the third in four years.
transcript
“Britain is on the verge, Mr. Speaker, of taking back control of our trade policy and restoring our independent seat … … in the W.T.O. for the first time in 46 years. Our exports, our exports to the — [cheering] our exports to the United States — I wish, I wish my honorable, I wish my honorable friend, oh, all of it.” “And of course, I think one of the most remarkable things that took place during the statement was to see the member for Bracknell cross the floor. Prime Minister, you’ve lost your majority.”
On a day of high drama, one Conservative rebel, Phillip Lee, quit the party and marched across the House of Commons to stand with the Liberal Democrats, who have managed to stage a resurgence by positioning themselves as an unambiguously anti-Brexit party.
While his defection means that Mr. Johnson no longer has a working majority in Parliament, the practical effect is limited. The government will fall only if it is defeated in a confidence motion.
In a letter to the prime minister, Mr. Lee said that Brexit divisions had “sadly transformed this once great party into something more akin to a narrow faction in which one’s Conservatism is measured by how recklessly one wants to leave the European Union.”
He added: “Perhaps more disappointingly, it has become infected by the twin diseases of English nationalism and populism.”
The clash on Tuesday, as Parliament returned from its summer recess, was made possible by a faction of lawmakers in Mr. Johnson’s party who say they will not support a no-deal departure. They have threatened to defy the prime minister’s warning that Tory rebels risk being expelled from the party.
On Monday, Mr. Johnson said he would refuse to ask the European Union to extend the deadline under any circumstances, making his only option a 
Speaking to Parliament on Tuesday, Mr. Johnson said that everyone could see that his government was “utterly determined” to leave the European Union, “come what may.”
The confrontation is the latest chapter in an escalating crisis over Brexit that has divided Britons. It has torn apart the governing Conservative Party, provoked claims that Mr. Johnson is trampling the 
Opponents of a no-deal Brexit argue that Mr. Johnson’s promise to leave the bloc without a deal would be catastrophic for the British economy. Many experts say it could lead to shortages of food, fuel and medicine, and wreak havoc on parts of the manufacturing sector that rely on the seamless flow of goods across the English Channel.
The confusion surrounding Brexit, and the fears about damage to the British economy if the country leaves without a deal, have 
Despite the threats of a party purge, Philip Hammond, the chancellor of the Exchequer under Mr. Johnson’s predecessor, Theresa May, said on Tuesday that he would join the efforts to stop a no-deal Brexit, adding that he thought the rebels had enough support for victory.
Mr. Hammond also dismissed claims from the foreign secretary, Dominic Raab, that opponents of a no-deal Brexit were undermining Mr. Johnson’s negotiating strategy in Brussels. There had been, Mr. Hammond told the BBC, no progress in those talks.
To add to the turmoil and confusion, the opposition Labour Party said it might thwart Mr. Johnson’s attempt to push for a general election, should it come to that. Under a 2011 law, the prime minister needs a two-thirds majority in order to secure a snap election.
The bitter dispute has taken Britain into new political territory. Last week Mr. Johnson provoked outrage by 
Mr. Johnson says he needs to keep the no-deal option on the table to give him leverage in talks in Brussels, because 
On Monday, he said that the rebels were trying to “chop the legs” from his negotiating position at a time when he is making progress, although the Brexit secretary, Stephen Barclay, gave a more downbeat assessment of those negotiations.
The European Commission said on Tuesday that while the frequency of meetings between its Brexit team and the British negotiator, David Frost, had increased, little headway had been made toward avoiding a hard border between Ireland and Northern Ireland.
Asked whether the British government was using reports of its talks with the commission for political purposes at home, the commission’s spokeswoman, Mina Andreeva, said that the body was “an honest broker as always,” but that she “can’t report any concrete proposals having being made that we have seen.”
Mr. Hammond told the BBC on Tuesday that Mr. Johnson’s claim of progress on the negotiations was “disingenuous.” One of the most unlikely of rebels, Mr. Hammond was a senior member of the cabinet two months ago, and his downbeat style and focus on economic detail earned him the nickname “Spreadsheet Phil.”
But he accused his enemies of trying to turn the Conservative Party from “a broad church into a narrow faction,” and criticized Mr. Johnson’s close aide Dominic Cummings.
If Mr. Johnson does pursue a general election, Mr. Hammond said he would try to block that push.
There is so little trust in British politics that Mr. Johnson’s opponents fear that he might request an election for Oct. 14 but then switch the date until after Oct. 31 as part of a move to lock in a no-deal withdrawal.
Labour, which has its own polarizing leader in Jeremy Corbyn, has said that its priority is to stop Britain leaving the European Union without a deal because of concerns about what such a departure would mean for the economy.
But Labour’s stance underscores that the backdrop to everything in British politics is a sense that a general election is looming, with key players maneuvering for the most advantageous moment.
Even with the support of 10 lawmakers from Northern Ireland, the government no longer has a working majority in Parliament, a position that cannot be sustained by any administration for long, let alone one facing the challenge of Brexit.
Mr. Johnson is trying to unite the political right, particularly Brexit supporters frustrated with Britain’s failure to leave the bloc earlier this year. Some Tories fear that they face an existential threat from Nigel Farage’s Brexit Party, leading to a belief that Mr. Johnson must pursue a no-deal Brexit, whatever the economic cost, to save his party.
Others think that the disruption likely to flow from such a rupture would make it impossible for the government to win a vote.