
MANCHESTER, England — He has been accused of inciting violence, misleading Queen Elizabeth II, running roughshod over the British Constitution and having a conflict of interest in his dealings with an American businesswoman.
But on Sunday, Prime Minister Boris Johnson of Britain was basking in the support of allies at the start of one of the most extraordinary conferences ever held by his governing Conservative Party.
That may have had as much to do with who is not at the conference in the northern English city of Manchester as who is.
The meeting is taking place in the absence of prominent party figures purged by Mr. Johnson for 
One of them, Philip Hammond, the former finance minister, 
But Mr. Johnson’s aggressive defense of Brexit, and his determination to leave the European Union “do or die” on Oct. 31 is music to the ears of Tory activists, and as he arrived in Manchester on Sunday, he made it clear that he has no intention of changing his tune.
“The best way to end this is to get Brexit done on Oct. 31 and move the country forwards,” Mr. Johnson said. “And that is what we are going to do.”
In the prime minister’s brand of scorched-earth politics, Tories see a path to victory in the general election everyone expects soon.
“There is a distinction between the parliamentary party, in which there are a lot of worried people, and the grass-roots membership,” said Tim Bale, a professor of politics at Queen Mary, University of London.
Professor Bale said a “vast majority of Conservative Party members say they would be happy to leave the European Union with no deal, and the majority voted for Boris Johnson.”
Party conferences are morale-boosting events for activists, and Mr. Johnson is assured a good reception. The vast majority of Tory Party members, Professor Bale said, “will be behind Boris Johnson and his Brexit policy, and will forgive him for a lot of his language and behavior.”
That may come in handy for Mr. Johnson, especially these days.
On Sunday, the prime minister maintained that he had acted with “propriety” when he was asked whether he had been transparent when he was the mayor of London and public money was being given to a company run by his friend Jennifer Arcuri, an American entrepreneur.
Mr. Johnson’s defended his actions amid new reports that
And addressing another accusation of impropriety, on Sunday Downing Street dismissed as “untrue” a claim by the journalist Charlotte Edwardes that Mr. Johnson had 
Mr. Johnson has been also 
Speaking to the BBC, he brushed aside furor over his language in debates on Brexit, rejecting arguments that his rhetoric might incite violence and describing himself as a “model of restraint.” He refused to apologize for 
The prime minister also refused to comment on media reports that he had apologized to Queen Elizabeth after the Supreme Court ruled last week that his advice to her on suspending Parliament was unlawful.
And Mr. Johnson doubled down on his promise to leave the European Union on Oct. 31, hinting that he would find ways to circumvent a law passed by Parliament to prevent a disorderly “no deal” Brexit.
With Parliament unexpectedly back in session — Mr. Johnson’s move to suspend it was rejected last week in 
Undoubtedly Mr. Johnson has alarmed some of his own lawmakers with his uncompromising language and his refusal to show contrition after the Supreme Court ruling.
Last week the culture secretary, Nicky Morgan, 
Such criticism may be beginning to dent his popularity a little, but according to some opinion polls, Mr. Johnson’s party enjoys a healthy lead over its main opposition, the Labour Party.
And his adversaries in Parliament face their own difficulties. They have twice voted to prevent the general election Mr. Johnson wants, insisting that he must first remove the risk of a disorderly Brexit by seeking another extension of the deadline to withdraw from the bloc.
The Scottish National Party is impatient to try to bring down Mr. Johnson through a motion of no confidence now — but that could actually be a boon for Mr. Johnson since it could result in the election he wants.
In Manchester, Conservative Party activists are preparing for an election and think that they at last have a winning strategy after two dispiriting years of drift under Mr. Johnson’s predecessor, Theresa May.
Mr. Johnson’s aides want to unite the voters who, in 2016, opted in a referendum to leave the European Union, and neutralize the threat from the Brexit Party, led by Nigel Farage.
So the main slogan at the Conservative conference is: “Get Brexit done.”
Mr. Johnson also wants to persuade voters that his government would invest in public services, including health and the police, to redress cuts made during the period of austerity that followed Britain’s financial crash.
The Conservatives, Professor Bale said, are “very good at identifying what they need to do to win an election: in other words to spend money to try to cut off the attacks from Labour and to talk about ‘no deal’ to reduce the threat from the Brexit Party.”
“It is not the world’s most successful political party for nothing,” he said.
Professor Bale said it remained unclear whether the party’s embrace of Mr. Johnson’s hard line was a temporary maneuver or a fundamental metamorphosis for the Tories into a more nationalistic, isolationist party.
“The Conservative Party always saw itself as the party that would defend constitutional norms and the rule of law,” he said. “We have seen something qualitatively different in the last month.”
Either way, support for Mr. Johnson at the conference was strong.
Peter Smallwood, a party member from London, said the Conservatives “are very, very good, when it matters, at coming together,” and dismissed the scandal over Ms. Arcuri and the dispute over Mr. Johnson’s rhetoric as irrelevant.
Molly Samuel-Leport, another party member from London, said: “The membership and the people will rally behind Boris Johnson because he is a strong leader. People want Brexit done, and Boris Johnson is the only person who seems to be speaking up for the people.”