
LONDON — Three months ago, Rory Stewart was the darling of the pro-compromise wing of the Conservative Party, or at least what was left of it, 
On Friday, 
In an era of cacophonous disputes over Brexit, Mr. Stewart’s run will test whether there is still a constituency for mediating between Britain’s angry factions and cushioning its departure from the European Union with a deal — especially in London, a bastion of anti-Brexit activism.
With his lanky frame and earnest manner, Mr. Stewart cut a remarkably different figure from the eventual winner of the Conservative leadership race, Boris Johnson, who is vowing to pull Britain out of the European Union, with or without a deal managing future relations, on Oct. 31.
But in vying for Mr. Johnson’s old job in London, Mr. Stewart will be trying to prove once again that a conservative lawmaker can use his charm and oddball antics to win the affections of a liberal city — and start a climb for higher office in the process.
He said that he would leave his seat in Parliament at the next election and run for mayor as an independent.
His run will narrow whatever slim chance the Conservative Party’s mayoral candidate, Shaun Bailey, had of recapturing City Hall. But even if Mr. Stewart harnesses his online popularity to build a formidable campaign, he will have to overcome considerable hurdles to unseat the incumbent Labour Party mayor, Sadiq Khan, an archenemy of President Trump and a vocal opponent of Brexit.
“We are only going to succeed when we finally break free from the suffocating embrace of our dying party politics,” Mr. Stewart wrote in announcing his candidacy. British politicians, he said, “have retreated to a madhouse of mutual insults in the Gothic shouting chamber of Westminster, and under the bleak lights of City Hall, pitting one group against another — rich against poor, London against the rest, Brexit against Remain.”
Mr. Stewart said that he would continue making the case for Britain’s striking a deal on the terms of 
But Mr. Stewart will soon be vacating his seat in the chamber debating that deal to seek a job that, for all its success as a political launching pad, has limited powers.
Mr. Stewart said he would make pollution, knife crime and housing the centerpieces of his campaign. And yet, in an announcement citing former President Barack Obama’s paeans to compromise, Mr. Stewart suggested that reducing partisanship was the best way of achieving his goals.
“This was the most moderate country on earth, one of the most settled places on earth, a place that treated people with civility and dignity,” Mr. Stewart said on Twitter, in one of the selfie videos that became his signature during the Conservative leadership race.
The son of a senior British intelligence officer, Mr. Stewart attended Eton and Oxford, and worked briefly as a tutor to Princes William and Harry before entering the diplomatic service. He set that aside to walk 6,000 miles alone across Iran, Pakistan and part of Afghanistan, a journey he described in an acclaimed book, “The Places in Between.”
After the coalition invasion of Iraq, he served for a time as deputy governor of a region in the country’s south — an experience he mentioned on Friday as evidence of his hands-on touch as a politician.
He entered the House of Commons in 2010, where his eccentricity and his penchant for obscure oratorical references were often on display.
Last month, Mr. Stewart was one of 21 rebels in the Conservative Party who staged an 
As a result, Mr. Stewart was stripped of his party affiliation in Parliament, though he remained a member of the Conservative Party.
Despite the admiration he has lately won from political moderates, he voted consistently with the Conservatives for an austerity program that has 