
LONDON — They are each facing the political test of a lifetime. They have each reacted with defiance, bravado and brazen appeals to populism. And they are each flying by the seat of their pants.
Never have the fortunes of 
For all their surface similarity, however, Mr. Trump and Mr. Johnson are cut from decidedly different cloth: one, an Eton- and Oxford-educated lover of Greek classics; the other, an outer-borough New York real-estate developer whose tastes run to reality television and who has spent a lifetime trying in vain to penetrate Manhattan society.
Yet, as they confront the biggest challenges of their careers, both men are resorting to scorched-earth tactics that are putting the world’s two great Anglo-Saxon democracies under intense strain.
Arguably, the brawling style comes easier to Mr. Trump. Friends and former aides say he thrives on conflict, an insurgent figure who fares best when trading punches with an opponent. Mr. Johnson, for all his bluster, has tended to steer clear of conflict. His political career has been less an insurgency than a relentless climb through the ranks of the establishment.
“He’s sort of a son of Trump,” said Sonia Purnell, who worked with Mr. Johnson and wrote a biography of him, “Just Boris.” “In a way it’s more shocking because it’s here,” she added, noting the British reputation for being “courteous, sometimes awkward, but pragmatic and rational.”
Where Mr. Johnson and Mr. Trump are alike, Ms. Purnell said, is in their acute sense of grievance when things go against them. In the days since 
Mr. Johnson, 
Mr. Trump accused the Democrats of pursuing a “witch hunt because they can’t beat us at the ballot.” He denied pressuring Ukraine’s president, Volodymyr Zelensky, to investigate Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. in return for American aid. “It’s a joke,” he declared. “Impeachment for that?”
For both men, the bravado masked a precarious future.
Mr. Johnson has lost vote after vote in Parliament since he came into office, including one aimed at forcing him to ask Brussels to delay Britain’s departure from the European Union beyond the deadline of Oct. 31 — something he has said he would rather die “in a ditch” than do. Opponents have accused him of 
Mr. Trump said he believed he had put impeachment behind him when the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, issued his report on the Trump campaign’s ties to Russia. He now faces the genuine prospect of being the third president to be impeached, after Andrew Johnson and Bill Clinton.
Rather than compromise, however, both have dug in their heels, apparently calculating that an unsparing response will galvanize their political bases and allow them to ride out the current turmoil. In the process, they have used language that has stunned even those used to the cut-and-thrust of politics.
On Wednesday, Mr. Johnson said Britain 
“It was a very tasteless way of referring to the memory of a murdered M.P., murdered by someone who said, ‘Britain first,’ ” she said to Sky News.
Mr. Trump told American diplomats he wanted to hunt down the officials who gave a whistle-blower information about his call with the Ukrainian president. Anyone who did so was “
The impeachment process, Mr. Trump said, was a conspiracy of the news media and the Democrats, who he said never accepted his victory over Hillary Clinton in 2016 and were determined to delegitimize his presidency.
Both leaders are framing their battles as populist crusades — the people versus the elite — and they have reasons for doing so. Mr. Johnson remains a relatively popular figure in Britain; the Conservative Party has held on to its lead in the polls through weeks of wrenching debate over Brexit.
“We’re enjoying this,” Dominic Cummings, a senior adviser to Mr. Johnson and a 
In Washington, Democrats have long worried that impeaching Mr. Trump would serve only to mobilize his supporters in the 2020 campaign, especially since the Republican-controlled Senate seems unlikely to remove him from office.
Still, neither man wanted to be in this position, people who know them say. They blundered into it, these people said, as a result of their unorthodox style, disregard for accepted norms and lack of a Plan B.
“They’re both showmen, they’re both performers,” said Stephen K. Bannon, a former chief strategist to Mr. Trump who has enthusiastically advocated for Brexit. “The trouble is, that gets you elected, but it doesn’t help you govern.”
Mr. Bannon predicted that Mr. Johnson, because he is more of an establishment figure than Mr. Trump, would stop short of a strategy that puts the future of the Conservative Party at risk. Others say he would find it difficult to sustain his recent fury, given his desire to be liked.
“He was acting against type,” said Andrew Gimson, another of Mr. Johnson’s biographers. “Boris wants to be loved, even if this aspect of his character was not on display in the House of Commons.”
David Cameron, the former prime minister, who worked closely with Mr. Johnson before breaking with him over Brexit, said in a recent interview, “At his best, he is a modern compassionate Conservative.” The popular perception of Mr. Trump and Mr. Johnson as natural allies, he argued, was misplaced, even if Mr. Johnson was capable of striking a pose for political expediency.
“While I’m sure he’s doing his very best to get on with President Trump,” Mr. Cameron said, “they don’t agree about climate change. They don’t agree about free trade. You know, it’s a challenge.”