
It’s been a whirlwind week in the news. On Monday, President Trump was accused of freezing aid to Ukraine before pressing the country’s leader to investigate a political rival. By Tuesday, Nancy Pelosi, the House speaker, announced a formal impeachment inquiry against the president, and, for much of the last few days, cable news, social media, late-night 
Still, perhaps you heard a bit about the 
Here are some other stories you may have missed.
A sweeping United Nations report found that climate change is dramatically altering the chemistry of the world’s oceans. They are heating up quickly, threatening seafood supplies, fueling cyclones and floods, and posing profound risks to hundreds of millions of people who live along the coasts, 
Written by more than 100 international experts and based on more than 7,000 studies, the report is the most extensive look to date at the effects of climate change on oceans, ice sheets, mountain snowpack and permafrost.
The chief executives of Juul Labs, WeWork and eBay stepped down this week. 
Juul Labs 
Meanwhile, the hard-partying chief executive 
And the scandal-plagued bank 
The State Department announced that the 
The change will eliminate many opportunities for people fleeing war and persecution to resettle in the United States, which until Mr. Trump took office was the world’s leading destination for refugees.
Experts say the Trump administration’s more restrictive policies have slowed immigration. 
Vox Media agreed 
New York Magazine is one of a dwindling number of magazines that regularly publish ambitious essays and feature stories. The film “Hustlers,” which has grossed more than $62 million in the United States, is based on an 
The National Transportation Safety Board released the results of a monthslong review of potential lapses 
The agency faulted the company for making erroneous assumptions during the jet’s development, and called for changes in the way planes are certified.
The best-selling jet came under intense scrutiny after 
Thomas Cook, one of the world’s oldest tour companies, abruptly announced — with some of its flights still in the air — that it was 
About 150,000 customers were abroad on Thomas Cook trips at the time, and the British government is spending roughly $125 million to fly them home. It was called the largest peacetime repatriation in the country’s history.
Analysts pointed to the company’s failure to adapt to the digital age, and some also 
Amazon unveiled the latest additions to the growing list of products tied to the company’s Alexa voice assistant. The 
The company also announced that for 99 cents, you can make Alexa speak as if she were 
“I opened a Pandora box and released a Frankenstein monster.”
He has been credited with sparking a crossbreeding frenzy resulting in cockapoos, shih poos and puggles. He said he originally bred the pup for a blind woman whose husband was allergic to dog hair, but that most of the dogs “are either crazy or have a hereditary problem.” 