
LONDON — 
“He risked an outcome he didn’t believe in because it would help his political career,” Mr. Cameron, who stepped down in 2016 after voters surprisingly backed a withdrawal, writes in the memoir, “For the Record.”
After three years of relative silence from the former prime minister, the excerpts from his book read alternately as public apology — of sorts — and personal defense from a man who is still being blamed by many Britons for 
Mr. Johnson became prime minister about two months ago and advocates leaving the European Union under any circumstances.
The book, which has been 
Mr. Johnson has been insistent that Britain should leave the European Union — “do or die,” he has said — even if no agreement is reached, despite concerns that a “no deal” departure could bring an 
The memoir touches on a broad range of issues: the death of Mr. Cameron’s son Ivan at age 6; his days smoking marijuana in high school at Eton; his university years in Oxford; and other high-profile, non-Brexit-related political issues, notably the Scottish independence referendum and the legalization of gay marriage.
But, like his immediate successor, Theresa May, Mr. Cameron is unlikely to ever escape the shadow of Brexit. Many Britons remain furious over Mr. Cameron’s decision to call a referendum on membership in the European Union, and the country remains divided on the issue.
The book was
Mr. Cameron acknowledges that, unlike Margaret Thatcher, another former British prime minister, he has regrets — “lots” — many of which relate to Brexit. But actually turning the decision over to the voters is not one of them, he says.
In an
In an excerpt published in The Times of London on Sunday, Mr. Cameron relates a pivotal conversation with Mr. Johnson in early 2016 at the tennis court of the United States ambassador’s residence in London.
“Boris’s style on the court is like the rest of his life: aggressive, wildly unorthodox (he often uses an ancient wooden racquet) and extremely competitive,” he writes.
Mr. Cameron tried, and failed, to dissuade Mr. Johnson, at the time the mayor of London, from joining the campaign to leave the European Union, setting the stage for events that would ultimately end the political career of one and catapult the other into Downing Street.
Mr. Cameron said that he and Mr. Johnson were fundamentally “part of the same team,” despite their “disagreements and tensions.” With that in mind, Mr. Cameron dangled a “top-five” job — the ministry of defense — in front of Mr. Johnson, his only real rival in terms of popularity, in exchange for his support in a referendum fight that was just beginning.
Mr. Johnson did not accept the offer.
A few weeks later, he told Mr. Cameron by text that Brexit would be crushed “like the toad beneath the harrow,” but that he could not campaign for the effort to remain in the European Union.
The issue has 
One of those Conservatives expelled, Sam Gyimah, said this weekend that he had joined the Liberal Democrats, who have managed to revive themselves by pledging to block Brexit.
“Since the referendum, the Conservative party has drifted away from One Nation values and towards English nationalism,” 
Mr. Cameron now concedes that he “failed” — repeating the word three times in the space of three sentences — in his approach, including miscalculating the dominance of the “latent leaver gene in the Tory party,” as well as the loyalty of some of his allies.
In particular, Mr. Cameron appears to have been particularly stung by what he regarded as the betrayal of Michael Gove, a good friend who served in his cabinet as justice minister. Mr. Gove was “one of the most learned, enlightened people I knew,” the former prime minister wrote, before becoming “an ambassador for the post-truth age.”
Though he credits Mr. Johnson as an effective London mayor whose talent he respected, Mr. Cameron said that, by “the end, Boris and Michael seemed to me to be different people.”
They behaved, he said, “appallingly.”