
LONDON — What does it mean to be British? What does that look like? There’s really no way around these questions for anyone in the 
And designers? Designers, stuck with a fashion season 
The point of fashion is to crystallize identity: to give individuals the tools to express who they are. But if you don’t know who you are, because who you are today (what you are part of) and who you may be in a month (what you are not part of) are different, the most you can do is provide succor for getting through the moment; for helping to process.
There are no simple answers, as 
It came over long, draped, jersey dresses surrounded at the hip by a thick circlet of rhinestone belt, one sleeve missing, the other sliced open to reveal the arm and billowing out behind. It came over shirts over harem pants; under a flowing silver superhero cape; mirrored in circular cutouts on the hips of dresses or swirled just above the hems of trench coats; embedded among super-fringed shawls and mohair slip dresses.
Mr. Anderson name-checked 
Still, there’s been a lot of symbolism going on. The biggest trend of the week was a silhouette that was the equivalent of a really gorgeous … tent. A safe space made of fabric in which to take refuge from the day. To hide not the body politic but just the body (
Hemlines were dropped and often dusted the floor, trailing behind like a train or a memory; sleeves extended past the wrists to obscure the hands or got blown up to inflated, absurd proportions; there were acres of fabric involved. For a spring/summer season, there was almost no focus on exposure.
Instead there were dresses that took up space, as 
Dresses that folded narrative over fantasy, as in 
There were exceptions, to be sure: 
But even 
Layers! Get it? So many: of interpretation, decisions, potential outcomes. That Ms. Beckham made them look 
Though they are rarely worn as lightly, or with as much nuance, as in 
And they tapped into a strain of historical revisionism oft-beloved of fashion but more freighted now that we are at another turning point,
Given the stakes, Mr. Tisci had spent, he said backstage after the show, the first two collections establishing what he called “the alphabet” of the house; this was the first attempt to put the variables together to write its new story. So using his letters — A is for animal print; S is for scarves; T is for trench; V is for Victorian beginnings, and so on — he collaged them into a tale of oppositions: between the queen and the rebels, aristocracy and youth.
There was less beige and more gray jersey. Instead of the Burberry horse came a new silk menagerie of wild cats and 
It was clear, it was referential, it had incrementally progressed, and yet it still felt like looking at a paint-by-numbers project. The common denominators are too simplistic; the understanding of inheritance too superficial. 
If anything has become clear over the last many months it is that what it means to be British today is full of complications and deep-seated emotions. Full of stories written by the victors that maybe need to be rewritten, and fear and passion and hope about what was and what will be. Strafed by the awareness of multiplicities. It demands a new expression. Perhaps that can’t happen until we know exactly what is going to happen. In the meantime, the identity crisis is starting to develop its own look. 