
Good morning.
We’re covering U.S. and Saudi officials’ response to the attacks on
Saudi Arabia and the U.S. are moving closer to blaming Iran for the weekend attack on Saudi oil facilities. But they 
Asked if Iran was responsible, President Trump said, “It’s looking that way.” But he stopped short of a definitive accusation.
Mr. Trump also said that he would “like to avoid” a military conflict with Tehran, but warned that the U.S. was prepared for war if necessary.
While the Saudis said they would “forcefully respond to these aggressions,” they also stopped short of directly blaming Iran and did not call for immediate retaliation. 
State prosecutors subpoenaed President Trump’s accounting firm, demanding 
It is part of a criminal investigation into the role of the president and his family business in hush money payments made to Stormy Daniels, a pornographic film actress who said she had an affair with Mr. Trump. (He has said there was no affair.)
The Manhattan district attorney’s office is examining whether the reimbursements violated New York state laws. 
Voting begins today in the country’s second election in five months. Early results may come late tonight. 
The first election ended inconclusively, and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu failed to stitch together a coalition government — a first for Israel. 
Even though Mr. Netanyahu is facing possible indictment on accusations of bribery, fraud and breach of trust, 
Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s first meeting with Jean-Claude Juncker, the president of the European Commission, to 
Mr. Johnson skipped a scheduled news conference after protesters booed him, leaving an opening for a dramatic speech from his counterpart in Luxembourg. (“You can’t hold people’s future hostage for party political gains,” Prime Minister Xavier Bettel said, gesturing to the empty podium.) 
The poet Arthur Rimbaud was long dismissed because of his flouting of traditional values and his homosexuality, and he was shunned in his hometown in northern France after describing it as “stupid” and “hideous.”
But more than a century after his death, his reputation has flourished, and 
And if you’re feeling wrung out from saving the world, here are 
If you’re following the U.S. presidential election, you’ve probably stumbled repeatedly over the word “stump.”
Campaigning politicians go out “stumping” and deliver “stump speeches,” or standard addresses that they repeat over and over. The state of South Carolina has a 143-year tradition, 
The term goes back to frontier days, when candidates headed out to the hinterlands and addressed crowds 
There would have been an awful lot to choose from. The U.S. Forest Service says 
Trees once covered an estimated 46 percent of the land area of what is now the U.S., versus just 34 percent now. While there are large-scale 
That’s it for this briefing. 
Update from the 
— Melina