
ROMFORD, England — Regardless of whether British voters chose to leave or remain in the European Union, the 
“They’re all idiots. Stuck up, stupid, useless idiots,” said Liam Peters, 37, a carpenter from Barling, in southeast England, who voted to leave in the 2016 referendum. “We voted for a very simple thing: to leave. We didn’t vote for deals or endless negotiations. We just want to get out, but our politicians are useless, and they have turned one of the most important decisions in our history into a farce.”
After three years of painstaking negotiations, votes and delays to 
“Boris is just as useless as everyone else. He’s a joke,” said Tony Edwards, a 64-year-old retired truck driver from Essex in southeast England. “All the M.P.s are corrupt; they just care about collecting their paychecks. The best solution at this point is to shut down Parliament and elect new representatives because this Parliament does not represent the public. We voted out, and out means out.”
Things were not looking much better for Mr. Johnson on Friday. In one glimmer of good news, a judge did toss out a suit brought by the activist lawyer Gina Miller challenging the legality of the prime minister’s decision to suspend Parliament for several weeks.
But things were decidedly gloomier for Mr. Johnson on other fronts. The 
“No one wants another election, we’ve had one recently and it didn’t change anything,” said Ms. Burton, who voted Remain in the referendum. “What we need to solve this gridlock is a second referendum.”
And later on Friday, the House of Lords gave its approval to a bill to block a no-deal Brexit, and the measure is expected to become law after getting the pro forma approval of the queen on Monday.
Ms. Burton believes that a significant portion of the public who voted to leave the European Union in 2016 was misled by campaigners, who she says played down the economic impact of Brexit, especially if it occurred without a withdrawal agreement.
“The true reality of Brexit is now out there in the public sphere,” she said, “and I’m convinced that many people have taken stock of that reality and changed their minds.”
If that is the case, it is a late-breaking development, because over the years the polls have reflected the deep polarization of the electorate, with relatively little movement from one side to the other.
Remainers, as the aggrieved party, have tended to be more vocal in expressing their displeasure. Last weekend, 
But the discontent was not limited to Mr. Johnson’s opponents. Even Conservatives expressed dismay at his highhandedness, particularly the sacking of the 21 Conservative members of Parliament who voted against his Brexit strategy, when he himself was elected prime minister by only around 100,000 party members.
“This is not the Conservative Party I voted for,” Belinda Ashton, a 48-year-old housekeeping manager, said on Thursday as she flicked through a tabloid at Liverpool Street station in London that ran the headline, “Britain’s worst PM.”
“There is no way I would have voted for a party led by Boris Johnson,” Ms. Ashton continued. “Just the fact that he can get elected by a handful of people and then come in and sack so many M.P.s that were elected by the public, like a Middle Eastern dictator. It’s absurd.”
Even though she does not support the main opposition Labour Party or its leader, Jeremy Corbyn, Ms. Ashton believes that his leadership would increase the chances of a second referendum, which she supports.
Sitting in the sunshine in the garden of an East London pub, eating a bowl of french fries and sipping on a glass of Coke, Matt Thomas, a 42-year-old insurance agent, laughed at the mention of the word Brexit.
“It’s just theatrics, it’s actually pretty entertaining,” he said. “But I’m not too worried, because what we’ve seen this week is that Parliament is still capable of doing its job by averting BoJo’s chances of delivering a calamity and driving this country off the cliff.”
For many members of the public, the events in Westminster in recent months, and particularly this last week, have been hard to follow. Some mentioned as particularly indecipherable the interminable wrangling over the so-called backstop to prevent border checks between Ireland in the European Union and Northern Ireland in the United Kingdom. Some people said they simply did not trust the news media to deliver accurate, unbiased information.
“There is too much information out there for your average person to understand,” said Mr. Edwards, the retired truck driver. “Backdoor, backroom, whatever they are arguing about in Ireland, I don’t get it.”
Some Brexit supporters voiced their admiration for President Trump, saying that Britain needs a leader like him, who “manages to get things done swiftly” while also “taking care of the economy.”
“I don’t trust any of our politicians,” Mr. Edwards said, before invoking the infamous leader of the 