
LONDON — Not long after asking the House of Commons to “contemplate the current constitutional confusion and consider the chaos this concatenation of circumstances could create” on Tuesday night, the British lawmaker Jacob Rees-Mogg reclined on the front bench of the chamber until he was nearly horizontal.
Around him colleagues raged at the power grabs of Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s government, in which Mr. Rees-Mogg serves as leader of the House of Commons. But there was Mr. Rees-Mogg, nicknamed “the honorable gentleman from the 18th century” for his old-world tics and antiquarian poshness, looking like a Degas model, with his willowy frame and long, angular face.
His legs were crossed. His midsection, wrapped in a double-breasted suit, was nearly flush with the green leather bench. He clasped his hands and tipped back his head.
From across the chamber, as the internet memes soon noted, Mr. Rees-Mogg’s slouch mirrored the
For a government in crisis over its plan to shut down Parliament and pull Britain out of the European Union, it was a devastating look, seeming to confirm critics’ worst fears about a government of smug, entitled private school types sleepwalking into a no-deal Brexit that could wreck the economy and starve Britons of food and medicine.
But it also showed the perils of Mr. Johnson handing the reins of Parliament to 
“With his body language throughout this evening,” Mr. Rees-Mogg “has been contemptuous of this house and of the people,” Caroline Lucas, a Green Party lawmaker, said on Tuesday night.
For the benefit of the written parliamentary record, Ms. Lucas said she wanted to describe her view: “The leader of the House has been spread across around three seats, lying out as if that was something very boring for him to listen to tonight.”
He hardly moved, raising his eyebrows and adjusting his rimless glasses to jeers of “sit up!” from around the chamber.
Only a few years ago, Mr. Rees-Mogg was an obscure back-bench Conservative lawmaker who had overcome an early stumble in politics when he went out to greet voters in the company of his family nanny. He soon turned his foibles into a permanent shtick, becoming an unapologetic stand-in for what he saw as old-world British habits and political views.
He named his sixth child 
But the victory for Leave in the 2016 Brexit referendum gave him an opportunity to lift his profile. As Conservative activists tired of politicians in the mold of former Prime Minister David Cameron, with their sensible suits and middle-of-the-road views, Mr. Rees-Mogg began appearing on lists of possible future party leaders.
He refused to bend to the most mainstream views. A Catholic, he opposes abortion even in cases of rape. Conservative Party members flocked to his corner, voting him the top choice to succeed Prime Minister Theresa May at one point. Mr. Johnson immediately put him in one of the most prominent government seats.
But the particular kind of aristocratic performance art that Mr. Rees-Mogg perfected on his way to power may not prove as effective in the throes of a bruising fight over Brexit and the British constitution. From the back benches, his eccentricity may have charmed, analysts said, but on the front benches of government it accentuated a sense that Mr. Johnson’s government was reckless, arrogant and out of touch.
Mr. Rees-Mogg seemed to wither on Tuesday night under the heat of attacks not only from opposition lawmakers, but also from more moderate Conservative colleagues. Trying to turn accusations of parliamentary chicanery back on the opposition, who had engineered a way of passing a law to stop a no-deal Brexit, the most rousing phrase Mr. Rees-Mogg seemed able to muster was calling them “constitutionally irregular.”
A longtime Conservative, Ken Clarke, who was kicked out of the party later Tuesday night for defying the government, lashed out at Mr. Rees-Mogg.
“My right honorable friend, the leader of the house, is very good at keeping a straight face when he is coming out with arguments that are almost incredible,” he said. Then Mr. Clarke laid into the idea championed by Brexiteers like Mr. Rees-Mogg that a no-deal Brexit, forcing Britain to trade on bare-bones World Trade Organization rules, would help.
“The benefits of trading solely with the W.T.O., I will leave solely to one side,” he said. “I’m sure the North Koreans thrive on that.”