
LONDON — As lawmakers 
Organizers said the protests drew
The stated desire of the marchers was to call for a second referendum on any Brexit deal that lawmakers approve, but most had a more basic goal.
“No Brexit” was the chant that echoed through the stately streets and grand avenues of the city on a crisp and sunny autumn afternoon. 
“This is a last-ditch attempt to get them to hear our voices,” said Ollie Lloyd, 42, who was among those protesting. The debate taking place in Parliament, he said, was about more than trade deals and plain economics.
“This is about what kind of country we want to be,” he said: “Do we want to be an open and tolerant country,” or one that is closed off and inward looking?
His father, Gil Lloyd, 68, was handing out anti-Brexit stickers at the march. 
Wearing a European Union sweatshirt and wristbands, and a button depicting a man meant to represent Britain shooting himself in the foot, he said it was important to participate in the demonstration even if he was not hopeful that a second referendum would take place. 
“I am just horrified at the whole thing,” he said.
Those mixed emotions seemed to capture the spirit of the day — a combination of defiance, determination, exhaustion and resignation.
Yet the mood was largely festive as the march made its way from the triumphal Marble Arch near Hyde Park, through Trafalgar Square, past the many monuments to past days of imperial power, and on to Parliament.
While protesters cheered and jeered outside the building, inside Mr. Johnson was making the case to Parliament that it was time for lawmakers to pass “a deal that can heal the rift in British politics” and “unite the warring instincts in our soul.”
He called the deal “the greatest single restoration of national sovereignty in parliamentary history.”
It was the first time the House of Commons had been called into session on a Saturday in nearly four decades, when lawmakers gathered to discuss the war in the Falkland Islands.
In a referendum three years ago, British voters narrowly supported leaving the European Union, which it had joined in 1973.
Since then, the divisions in the country have grown along with feelings of frustration, confusion, sadness and despair.
And growing public anger.
“The whole thing was sold on a lot of lies,” said Dorothy Milosevic, 63. “Since that morning when we woke up to find that the leavers had won, it is has been gloom and despondency.”
“It is important that our voice is heard,” she added. She had traveled from Oxford with her daughter, Angahard Holloway, 34, and her granddaughter, Eleanor, 12.
Those who would be most affected by Brexit, she said, were the young people. “They simply won’t have the same opportunities I was afforded,” she said.
Outside Parliament, three 16-year-old friends who attend school together said they felt it was important to take part in the march even though they were still two years away from voting age.
“We came here today because we want to let our voices be heard,” said one of the teenagers, Anoushka Nairac, a student at Magdalen College School. “We have not been able to do it any other way.”
As for many others, her issues with Brexit are deeply personal.
“My father is an immigrant who set up his own company and provided jobs for citizens,” she said. “It makes me annoyed; people are not looking at the facts.” 
Even before Saturday, the anger over Brexit had led to some of the largest protests in British history.
Mrs. May tried to persuade Parliament to pass her deal three times, and 
But after her resignation, Mr. Johnson, a champion of Brexit, 
He has steadfastly opposed the idea of another vote, saying that the people have already had their say.
Those who took to the streets on Saturday called that argument flawed. 
They say that voters were misled before the referendum and that they should be given a chance to vote on a specific Brexit deal — with the benefit of being informed by years of debate and discussion — rather than the abstract notion of a withdrawal.
The protesters were joined by celebrities, opposition politicians and the former prime ministers Tony Blair, of the Labour Party, and John Major, a Conservative, who united to make a short film that was to be screened at the rally warning about 
The organizers of the march, reacting to criticism that their movement was mainly backed by people in wealthy areas, sought to build support outside London and have 
On Saturday, more than 170 buses had been arranged to bring protesters from around the country into London.
“We are now reaching a crucial moment in the Brexit crisis,” the organizers of the march said in a statement. “The Government has adopted the slogan ‘Get Brexit Done’ to try and browbeat an exhausted public into accepting whatever botched Brexit Boris Johnson presents to them but we know this slogan is a lie.”
Greg Brown, 41, an engineer from Middlesbrough, said he had made the trek from the northeast of England to show that even in Brexit strongholds like where he lives, opinion is divided.
“I am embarrassed to say that there was a big Leave vote in the north east,” he said. “Europe stands for peace, for multilateral negotiations, workers rights, paternity rights, jobs and free trade.”
“In the three years since the vote,” he said, “I have not yet heard a decent reason for voting Leave, and here we are standing on a cliff edge.” 
Since lawmakers decided to delay the vote, it seems Mr. Brown, along with millions of others, will have to remain on the cliff’s edge a while longer.