
It may be that Britain’s political slide into Boris Johnson’s populism was inevitable in the struggle over Brexit. But his 
Somewhat like other populists who took advantage of discontent and confusion to win power, 
That’s the stuff of modern-day populism, and, as Max Fisher wrote in 
Yet unlike the American president with a four-year lock on the White House, or the populists in 
He has suffered defeats in at least four votes in Parliament, the first met by jeers and punctuated by a cry of 
Mr. Johnson and his shadowy strategist Dominic Cummings are not finished. Their plan is to force an 
But however popular Mr. Johnson’s bluster may be with the public, the British political establishment has no trust in him or in his words. And however much Mr. Johnson may argue that the “system” is frustrating the popular will, the institutions of democracy are doing what they are meant to do in resisting the excesses of populist appeals.
How or whether Britain parts with the European Union remains as uncertain as ever. But the country’s elected representatives have shown that they will not surrender democracy to populist ploys. There is little question that Britain will face another election before long, but the members of Parliament who voted against Mr. Johnson were right to demand that a no-deal Brexit be taken off the table first.
No matter how frustrating and chaotic the political stalemate over Brexit, it is a reflection of a deeply polarized society, and not necessarily of a dysfunctional system. Mr. Johnson’s predecessor, 
Mr. Johnson, by contrast, has built his career on exaggeration, showmanship and outright lies, presenting himself as whatever sells best at the moment. All that may be an inalienable part of modern politics, but the politicians who have risen up to block Mr. Johnson, including his own brother, suggest that in Britain, at least, it is not the whole of politics. In Britain’s excruciating struggle over Brexit, and over its own future, this much is reassuring.