
It’s barreling toward the Eastern Seaboard as a Category 2 storm, and the National Hurricane Center warned of “life-threatening” storm surge from Florida to Virginia — even before the high winds arrive. 
The vast scale of the storm’s devastation is 
Meanwhile, meteorologists
The Trump administration is rolling back 
Expect a court challenge.
Their plans 
Nearly all the candidates have claimed that cutting greenhouse gases will lead to job creation. 
How is the Green New Deal playing across the political spectrum? 
So far, we know that about half of the money will be taken from planned military projects overseas, and the remainder from projects in the U.S.
Senator Chuck Schumer identified one as the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, above. He said the diversions were a “slap in the face” to the armed services.
Officials have begun notifying congressional representatives of the areas that will see cuts, so expect some uproar. 
The House of Commons passed a bill that 
Mr. Johnson, bruised by his second setback in two days, then got a third. Lawmakers rejected his formal request for a snap general election on Oct. 15 — at least until their no-deal block becomes law. 
A 500-million-year-old fossil found in China offered what scientists consider a rare treasure: the imprint of a worm that 
The worm appeared more than twice as long ago as the appearance of the first dinosaurs. 
Our Science desk is also reporting on the opening of
And scientists have discovered that squirrels pay attention not only to alarm calls but also to the background chatter of birds. When the birds sound relaxed, it causes 
Brad Pitt is giving hard thought to the person he’s become. With two major films out this year, the 55-year-old actor and producer 
In other news from Hollywood: Lizzo, the singer, rapper, dancer and flutist with one of the biggest hits of the summer, dishes on her skin rehab, impossible standards and 
“The Testaments” picks up 15 years after readers last saw Offred, who has since been declared an enemy of the state in Gilead. Margaret Atwood’s “sheer assurance as a storyteller makes for a fast, immersive narrative that’s as propulsive as it is melodramatic,” Michiko Kakutani writes. 
The committee that awards the Booker Prize took special precautions to make sure no details of “The Testaments” leaked out. 
A company affiliated with the N.B.A. star filed to 
At issue for taco lovers far and wide: Should 
Have a wacky Wednesday night.