
LONDON — When Prime Minister Boris Johnson asked Queen Elizabeth II on Wednesday to suspend the British Parliament, limiting lawmakers’ ability to block his plan to take the country out of the European Union by Oct. 31, many people hoped she would decline his request.
Yet constitutional experts say that Queen Elizabeth, the world’s longest-serving monarch, had little sway over the matter. As the head of state in a constitutional monarchy, she is considered politically neutral, with limited decision-making powers.
“What it means in practice is that she basically doesn’t have any discretion,” said Asif Hameed, a lecturer in law at the University of Southampton. “In our political system she is the head of state, but she is not supposed to be governing — that’s left to the elected government.”
In this case, two constitutional conventions came into play: One that says the monarch is obliged to follow the advice of the government in power, and another that requires her political neutrality.
So when Mr. Johnson 
“In a democratic system, you can’t expect the unelected head of state — whose whole legitimacy depends on her being outside of the political system — you can’t expect that person to be your guardian of democracy,” said Michael Gordon, a professor of constitutional law at the University of Liverpool.
A request to suspend Parliament is standard for beginning a new session of Parliament, but 
With lawmakers, and the public, starkly divided over Brexit, Mr. Johnson’s request put the queen squarely in the middle of a heated issue.
“By pursuing a controversial course of action — which this absolutely is, this prorogation of Parliament which requires the queen to formally approve it — the government has kind of drawn her into this,” Mr. Gordon said.
And because the Brexit process has become so divisive, the queen’s actions — even when largely symbolic — have come to hold more weight, said Robin Niblett, the director of Chatham House, a British think tank.
“For her to be seen, even if it isn’t the truth, as being part of a process in which people are so invested emotionally is just not a good place objectively for the monarchy and for she herself to be in,” he said.
Some have suggested that the queen’s heir, Prince Charles, might prove to be a more politically involved monarch, since he has previously offered his opinions on sensitive issues. But in her six and a half decades on the throne, Queen Elizabeth has cultivated a strongly apolitical persona.
She does not typically intervene other than to make opaque references to the political climate. In January, 
A spokeswoman for Buckingham Palace declined on Thursday to comment on the suspension of Parliament.
Mr. Johnson’s maneuver on Wednesday 
“If it so happens the government advises something that is deeply controversial, then this can be sort of the knock-on effect,” said Mr. Hameed, the law lecturer. “Merely following that advice that she is supposed to, she can be dragged into something that is politically quite ugly.”
Lawmakers angered by Mr. Johnson’s decision had called on the queen to do something — anything — to halt the move. Some scrambled to request meetings with her, but their efforts came too late, and experts say they would probably not have made a difference.
And the prorogation of Parliament may be the first of several instances in the coming weeks in which the queen could find herself involved in the Brexit process, at least in a formal way.
“This first controversy that the queen has been drawn into, in some ways, is a relatively simple one,” Mr. Gordon said, “compared to the kinds of things that could hypothetically be not that much further down the line.”
If lawmakers try to pass legislation requiring the prime minister to seek a Brexit extension to avoid leaving the European Union without a deal, the final stage of that legislative process would be the queen’s approval. It is possible that Mr. Johnson’s government could advise her not to approve the legislation.
Or, if lawmakers succeeded in securing a vote of no confidence and Mr. Johnson were unable to form a new government but 
“That could be an even bigger clash for her,” Mr. Gordon said.