
LONDON — They have been called the Conservative rebels, a group of renegade lawmakers willing to risk their careers to defy their newly chosen leader, Prime Minister Boris Johnson, and 
But behind all the talk of revolutionary ardor and mutinous tactics was an unlikely cadre of insurrectionists — a band of starchy grandees of Tory politics that includes Winston Churchill’s grandson and a 45-year party veteran and ex-chancellor so colorless that he earned the nickname “Spreadsheet Phil.” Running the government only weeks ago, they flouted it on Tuesday from the sidelines.
They believe that Mr. Johnson, in his zeal for pulling Britain out of the European Union 
In setting aside their usual caution and 
The lawmakers disobeyed the strongest possible warning from their party to help opposition Labour lawmakers wrench control of the legislative business in Parliament from Mr. Johnson. That cleared the path for passing a law on Wednesday to stop Britain from leaving the European Union without a deal governing future relations.
Mr. Johnson sees such a law as so damaging to his negotiating strategy on getting Britain out of the bloc that he promised to ask for a snap general election if it passes. He had earlier tried to quash the law by concocting 
In an instant, the conflict hollowed out the world’s oldest and most successful political party. Former insiders were banished, and pro-Brexit lawmakers — once on the fringes, and now at the heart of Mr. Johnson’s government — tightened their grip on the party.
What remains, moderates fear, is a narrow, more homogeneous party that sacrifices its long-term electoral prospects in pursuit of a hard split from Europe. A third of Conservative voters said in recent YouGov polling that leaving the European Union without a deal would be unacceptable.
transcript
“Britain is on the verge, Mr. Speaker, of taking back control of our trade policy and restoring our independent seat … … in the W.T.O. for the first time in 46 years. Our exports, our exports to the — [cheering] our exports to the United States — I wish, I wish my honorable, I wish my honorable friend, oh, all of it.” “And of course, I think one of the most remarkable things that took place during the statement was to see the member for Bracknell cross the floor. Prime Minister, you’ve lost your majority.”
“It’s not clear there’s a route back toward a more center-right party from here,” said Alan Wager, a research associate at the U.K. in a Changing Europe, a research institute.
Mr. Johnson is gambling the party will instead win over new pro-Brexit voters from the Labour heartlands in the north of England. But his government is already holding on by a thread.
On Tuesday the party lost one Conservative lawmaker, Phillip Lee, who crossed the House of Commons to the benches opposite Mr. Johnson to join the Liberal Democrats, a centrist, anti-Brexit party.
The maneuvering on Tuesday reversed the two flanks of the Tory Party.
Mr. Johnson’s government is stocked with Brexiteers, like Jacob Rees-Mogg, the leader of the House of Commons. This group was playing the part of rebel when Theresa May was prime minister. They voted incessantly against Mrs. May’s proposed deal for Brexit and savaged her plans in public.
That balance shifted when Mr. Johnson took power. Senior ministers in Mrs. May’s more moderate government, like Philip Hammond, the chancellor known as “Spreadsheet Phil,” took up the part of spoiler to Mr. Johnson.
In voting against the government, Mr. Hammond was joined by Rory Stewart, a former international development secretary, and David Gauke, a former justice secretary, who were some of Mrs. May’s most loyal supporters.
“It’s quite extraordinary that we’ve had such a turnaround from the start of the year, when the rebels were the extreme Brexiteers,” said Nigel Fletcher, a teaching fellow in politics at King’s College London and a local councilor for the Conservatives.
“Those who are now the rebels are really the most establishment of figures,” Mr. Fletcher said. “People like Philip Hammond wouldn’t be considered a maverick at any other time. I think that’s something that has given people pause for thought, because these are not people who’ve made a career out of being provocative for its own sake.”
The rebel lawmakers seemed furious on Tuesday. In another era, they would have been the past and future of the Conservatives, with lawmakers like Nicholas Soames, Churchill’s 71-year-old grandson, standing alongside Mr. Stewart, a rising star among younger voters who walks the country filming his conversations with people.
But they said the party was now being set adrift by “entryists,” right-wing newcomers who have rushed into the Conservative fold to push it in a more extreme direction on Brexit. Mr. Hammond accused Dominic Cummings, Mr. Johnson’s most senior adviser, of not being a Conservative at all.
“This is my party — I’ve been a member of this party for 45 years,” Mr. Hammond said in a radio interview on Tuesday morning, brimming with anger. “I’m going to defend my party against incomers, entryists, who are trying to turn it from a broad church into a narrow faction.”
Mr. Lee, the lawmaker who defected to the Liberal Democrats, said he hardly recognized the Conservatives.
“Sadly, the Brexit process has helped to transform this once great party into something more akin to a narrow faction, where an individual’s ‘conservatism’ is measured by how recklessly one wishes to leave the European Union,” he wrote.
The Conservative rebels by and large support pulling Britain out of Europe, but with a deal to explain and manage future relations. That alone has made some of them targets, with a grass roots campaign of party members seeking to punish lawmakers not supportive of a no-deal Brexit.
For some of those members, Mr. Johnson’s move to expel the rebels was long overdue.
“At some point, you have to draw a line in the sand,” said John Rawlins, a former Conservative member who backed an effort to expel Mr. Gauke, one of the rebels, from his seat. “As far as I’m concerned, anyone who actively works against the queen’s government, it’s treason.”
Despite the animosity, many moderate Conservative lawmakers were slow to back a rebellion against Mr. Johnson, wanting to give him a chance to strike a new deal. But they saw few signs of progress. And the mood swung when Mr. Johnson took the extraordinary step of suspending Parliament to push through his Brexit plans.
“Boris has now broken some of the rules,” Mr. Wager said. “That’s what gives someone like Nicholas Soames license to do it, because the unwritten rules of British politics are being rewritten by Boris, and that creates a counterreaction.”
Expelling Conservative rebels was another draconian move by Mr. Johnson, one that was a step too far even for some of the grass-roots Conservative members who support him, like John Strafford, a leading advocate for Conservative members. He said it was “totally wrong that so much power can be put in the hands of one person.”
Tuesday night’s vote was a sea change for a party that has been haggling over membership in the European Union for decades. In the interest of defusing the argument, moderate lawmakers have tended to buckle in the past to the views of their more ardent, anti-Europe colleagues. They agreed, for instance, to hold a referendum in the first place. But no longer.
“For about 30 years, they’ve had these arguments about Europe, where each time these sort of moderate political figures have given in to the euroskeptics,” Mr. Wager said. “But to propose a no deal shows the fight is permanently lost within the Conservative Party. There’s nothing else to lose.”