
Britain’s negotiations to leave the European Union 
And yet, businesses and investors from around the world are still lining up to spend billions on major London-listed assets. In the last week, Greene King, a large British brewer that owns 2,700 pubs, was picked up for more than $5.5 billion, and the company behind Peppa Pig, the children’s TV character who enjoys her muddy puddles, attracted $4 billion. 
It is a sign that for overseas acquirers, Britain can still be an attractive target. 
The uncertainty over Brexit over the last several months has driven down the 
But that’s not to say Britain’s corporate landscape now resembles a jumble sale, with distressed bargains right and left.
And the overall amount of deal-making in Britain is down from recent years. So far in 2019, 731 deals worth $67.3 billion have been announced, according to the data provider Refinitiv. By comparison, 849 transactions worth $108.5 billion had been announced the same time a year ago.
Still, several big names listed in Britain have been snapped up by overseas buyers despite the fog of Brexit. Here’s a sampling.
Hasbro’s agreement to buy Entertainment One will give the toymaker, based in Pawtucket, R.I., a number of popular children’s characters, including the superhero team PJ Masks. 
But none is as well-known as Peppa Pig, a rambunctious British piglet who has become a savior for parents looking to entertain their young children. She has become so popular that she has spawned a merchandise empire, 
Still, the character is not without controversy: She drew the ire of Chinese censors earlier this year when she became a symbol of 
Entertainment One trades on the London Stock Exchange, but the company is based in Toronto. Beyond its children’s entertainment franchises, the company has a music division that represents the likes of the Lumineers and Soulja Boy and a movie unit that distributes movies like “On the Basis of Sex.”
CK Asset Holdings, a company run by the billionaire 
CK has long looked for overseas real estate acquisitions, particularly in Britain. Last year, it bought the London headquarters of UBS for £1 billion. 
But in Greene King’s string of pubs, the Hong Kong company has acquired a recession-proof staple of British culture. CK Asset Holdings was already familiar with the company, having bought 136 Greene King pubs in 2016 before leasing them back. 
 “We believe that this sector will continue to be an important part of British culture and the eating and drinking out market in the long run,” George Colin Magnus, a representative for CK Asset Holdings, said in a statement. Greene King, he added, “is well positioned to capture the opportunities that lie ahead.”
A consortium of investors agreed in June to buy Britain-based Merlin Entertainments, the owner of the Legoland theme parks, 
The private equity firm Warburg Pincus and a group of North American pension funds agreed in March to buy 
The buyout firm Advent International struck a deal last month
The Dutch online food delivery platform Takeaway.com agreed to buy Just Eat, a British rival, in an all-stock transaction worth about $11 billion. The proposed merger would create a delivery company that would span countries like England, Canada, Germany and Israel and compete with growing delivery services from Uber Eats and Deliveroo. 
Berry Global, a packaging company based in Indiana, in July scooped up RPC Group, one of Europe’s biggest plastic packaging companies, 