
LONDON — To understand what happened in British politics on Wednesday, it’s perhaps useful to turn to the workings of a popular game show, “Mornington Crescent,” that has been on the radio here for several decades now.
“Mornington Crescent” is, on the face of it, a complex strategy game. In it, players take turns announcing stations along London’s transport routes — the aim is to be the first to get to Mornington Crescent, a tube station on the northern line. It’s a raucous affair — as players exclaim loudly at particularly good moves by their opponents, and cheer when someone wins. They reminisce lovingly about games past. It is also very complicated. Almost every game occasions the introduction of special baroque rules with names like “Trumpington’s Variations” or “Tudor Court Rules,” according to which, each time, players obediently abide.
Regular listeners will also be aware that the game is entirely made up. There are no real rules; at any point a player could “win” “Mornington Crescent” simply by saying the words. They never would of course. It is simply not done. But I was strongly reminded of that possibility this morning, when Boris Johnson
He did not put it quite like that of course. His reason, he said — barely keeping a straight face — was to introduce an urgent domestic agenda. But the effect was clear. Mr. Johnson has promised Britain will leave the European Union, deal or no deal, on Oct. 31. His opponents are combing through the system — its rules and conventions — trying to find ways to thwart him. Their latest idea was to force the government to seek an extension of the deadline. Mr. Johnson responded by simply shutting the system down.
This is, of course, extraordinary — a minority government deliberately preventing M.P.s from scrutinizing one of the country’s biggest decisions in memory — and steers close to authoritarianism. There is no conceivable democratic mandate for crashing out of Europe without a deal. Indeed, various members of the 2016 campaign to leave the European Union frequently ruled out this possibility. Mr. Johnson himself said a few months ago that the odds of no deal were “
Yet this is the strange place in which Britain finds itself. Here’s the problem. As with “Mornington Crescent,” the rules on which its politics are based are unwritten
As Mr. Johnson and the Brexiteers plow on, M.P.s and commenters have tried manfully to keep up with the game. “Ah yes,” they say, at every
The rules are easy to ignore. Britain’s jumbled Constitution is set up that way, easily changed by a vote in Parliament or at a decision of the Speaker of the House of Commons. For years, British lawmakers were wary of tampering with it. But they have grown reckless.
Some cite the carelessness of Tony Blair, who rather brazenly devolved power to assemblies in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, and to the people through referendums. Other countries are more careful. Ireland holds referendums, but the 
All of this tampering might not necessarily have led to this, however, had the shame mechanism not broken down. But little by little, the years since 2016 have witnessed a slow wearing away of the willingness to play by the rules that once held this brittle system together. 
There was the lying by the Leave campaign; the sudden tendency of party leaders to cling to their posts in circumstances in which their predecessors would have felt that the only recourse was to step down. 
Where does all this leave British democracy? Our current prime minister has learned from his predecessor’s mistakes: She was hamstrung by the rules. But the country is now presented with a prime minister elected by a tiny percentage of the population — his mandate is from Conservative Party M.P.s and 
Martha Gill (