
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering 
Prime Minister Boris Johnson set off on 
He is also keeping an eye on domestic opponents as a general election becomes a possibility. 
Ahead of a potentially chaotic no-deal Brexit on Oct. 31, Mr. Johnson needs President Trump’s help to cushion the economic impact. But he can ill afford to appear too chummy, given Mr. Trump’s unpopularity among both Europeans and Britons.
President Trump added to strained European relations, saying that the new prime minister of Denmark, 
He then took to Twitter to further assail Denmark, saying that as a NATO member it did not contribute enough to military spending. 
The president is interested in Greenland, a semiautonomous territory of Denmark, for strategic military purposes, as well as for its natural resources. He said he canceled his planned September visit to Denmark over its rejection of his overture.
The Western Journal, a site founded by an American political provocateur, 
Now the publication is battling the very technology firms that enabled its rise. Its Facebook traffic has declined sharply, after an accumulation of “false” ratings from fact-checking websites made it less likely to appear in users’ feeds. Google News blacklisted the publication last year. Apple News followed suit in June.
A new Trump administration rule would allow the U.S. to 
The regulation, which must be approved by a federal judge, would also let the White House set standards for conditions at detention centers. It is expected to be immediately challenged in court. 
Schools across the country still teach how to calculate dizzying sums by sliding tiny beads along rods in wooden frames, and at least 43,000 students take advanced lessons. Many practitioners sit for exams, and the elite take part in national competitions, like the 
“Unlike the computer or calculator, you have to watch the movement of the beads with your eyes, and then think with your brain and make a move with your fingers,” one expert said. “It’s a very foundational learning process.”
And for those shopping for TVs, here’s what you need to know about a new feature, 
Two major fast-food chains, Chick-fil-A and Popeyes, are waging 
We went looking into the history books to see what everyone is all aflutter about. 
While many cuisines feature fried chicken, the American version drew from the 
Cookbooks written by white Southerners circulated the recipes, and after the Civil War, freed black entrepreneurs, especially women, 
The dish 
Who first sandwiched fried chicken in bread may never be known — one writer found 
That’s it for this briefing. In case you’re inspired, 
— Melina