
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering
The financier Jeffrey Epstein, who was charged last month with the sexual trafficking of minors, told scientists and other acquaintances of his plans to 
Although there is no evidence it ever came to fruition, it reflected Mr. Epstein’s longstanding fascination with transhumanism, a modern-day version of eugenics.
Mr. Epstein, who used his wealth to cultivate relationships with a wide range of business, political and scientific luminaries, also claimed to be bankrolling efforts to identify “a mysterious particle that might trigger the feeling that someone is watching you.”
After he received boos in Scotland and threats of unrest in Wales, Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s welcome to Northern Ireland was not much warmer. 
There, as in the previous parts of what he called his “awesome foursome” tour, 
The fraught, seemingly insoluble issue of how to withdraw from the bloc but keep an open border is at the epicenter of the Brexit crisis. So far there is little sign of Dublin or Brussels budging.
The plan enraged hard-line Brexit supporters who want to break free of European regulations, and it is unclear what solution will appease them and keep the region at ease. 
Economic growth in eurozone countries 
Analysts said that the Trump administration’s trade wars were weighing on the European economy and that Brexit continued to be a source of uncertainty for businesses. The E.C.B. said it was reviewing ways to revive the economy, beginning as early as September. 
In the second of two Democratic presidential debates in the U.S. this week, 10 additional candidates took the stage in Detroit. As expected, the rivalry between Ms. Harris, a California senator, and Mr. Biden, the former vice president, 
They touched on the busing and segregation conversation that 
Two hundred reindeer 
Climate change, along with bringing a deadly winter, made for warmer and longer summers there, helping to increase the reindeer populations. That leads to greater competition among the animals for limited food resources, putting them at greater risk of starvation.
We also have advice on how to repair your skin’s protective film of natural oils, amino acids and sweat, 
The battle for the Ashes resumes today. It’s one of the oldest and most fiercely contested sporting honors in the world, and it began as a joke.
England lost at home to Australia for the first time in 1882, and a newspaper printed 
When England then toured Australia, promising to “return with the Ashes,” the captain was handed 
England and Australia have fought for the Ashes 
Australia took the last series, 4-0 (the fifth game was a draw). But no matter who triumphs
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Melina