
LONDON — In the first electoral test for Britain’s 
During his first week in power, Mr. Johnson has sought to project the image of an energetic leader who is 
But Thursday’s election loss, in the Brecon and Radnorshire region of Wales, is a reminder of the fragility of his position in Parliament. A majority of lawmakers in London have 
The possibility of leaving the European Union on Oct. 31 without a deal has also put pressure on the British pound. On Thursday, the currency fell below $1.21, a level not seen in two and a half years.
Defeat in the special election increases the prospects of Mr. Johnson’s seeking to win a bigger majority in a general election in the fall.
Normally, the Conservatives would expect to retain the Brecon and Radnorshire seat, having comfortably won it in the 2017 general election with around 8,000 more votes than went to the centrist Liberal Democrats, in second place.
But the circumstances that prompted the election complicated matters for Mr. Johnson’s Conservatives. Their candidate, Chris Davies, was unseated by a petition of local voters after he was convicted of making a false expenses claim.
Although Mr. Davies, 51, admitted submitting two false invoices for nine photographs costing 700 pounds, or about $850, to decorate his office, his party selected him again to fight the seat.
He lost to 
The Liberal Democrats have performed well in recent local and European elections and, to maximize their prospects in the Welsh vote, struck a “Remain alliance” among like-minded parties. That made Brecon and Radnorshire something of a test case for future cooperation among opponents of Brexit.
Under this pact, neither the Welsh nationalist party, Plaid Cymru, nor the Greens — both of which oppose Brexit — contested the seat, giving the Liberal Democrats a clearer run. Britain’s main opposition party, Labour — which opposes a no-deal Brexit but whose leader, Jeremy Corbyn, is more equivocal about remaining in the European Union — fought for the seat.
Mr. Johnson’s first week in charge prompted a lift for the Conservatives in some opinion polls, but his tour of Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland underscored worries about the economic, political and constitutional risks of a no-deal withdrawal.
Since arriving in Downing Street, Mr. Johnson has hardened the Conservative Party’s stance on Brexit, and on Thursday his government announced that it was setting aside an additional £2.1 billion to prepare for 
There was also competition for the Conservatives in Brecon and Radnorshire from the Brexit Party, 
Although the Conservative Party now holds 310 seats in the House of Commons, by convention, one of those, the deputy speaker, is among a handful of lawmakers who do not vote.
The opposition parties (excluding Sinn Fein lawmakers from Northern Ireland, who do not take up their seats in Westminster) together can now muster 319 votes.
However, the Conservatives have an alliance with the 10 lawmakers from the Democratic Unionist Party of Northern Ireland. As things stand, that gives the government a one-seat margin.