
LONDON — In Scotland there were 
If Mr. Johnson’s roadshow around what he calls the “awesome foursome” was intended to convert his critics, it instead underscored the hostility in many corners to his promise to lead Britain out of the European Union, or Brexit, on Oct. 31, without any agreement if necessary.
That pledge has already alarmed currency traders and 
The basics of Brexit, the troubled plan for Britain to quit the European Union.
One political leader criticized his grasp of the issues in Northern Ireland, where a majority voted to remain in the European Union. Another warned that his hard-line Brexit policy could lead to a united Ireland.
On Monday, Mr. Johnson heard similar messages in Edinburgh, where supporters of Scottish independence believe that Brexit could reinvigorate their cause, particularly if Scots — who also favored remaining — have to confront a disorderly withdrawal.
Even in Wales, where support for Brexit is stronger, sheep farmers warned of civil unrest if an abrupt exit without any agreement puts tariffs on meat exports to continental Europe. Such a step could drive some out of business and prompt a mass slaughter of the herd.
But undoubtedly, the border between Northern Ireland and Ireland, a member of the European Union and its single market, has been the biggest obstacle to Brexit, and it made Wednesday’s visit to Belfast particularly delicate.
The fraught, seemingly insoluble issue of how to leave the European Union but keep an open border is at the epicenter of the Brexit crisis that has paralyzed and poisoned British politics for three years. Not only did it prompt the British Parliament to reject a withdrawal plan three times, but it also cost the last British prime minister, Theresa May, her job.
Decades of tension and violence between the Protestant and Roman Catholic communities were eased by a peace process under the 1998 Good Friday Agreement that removed checkpoints and other symbols of statehood on the Irish border.
That process was easier because both the United Kingdom and Ireland were part of the same economic bloc, the European Union, operating by largely the same rule book.
To prevent any risk of the reintroduction of controls at the highly sensitive border after Brexit, Mrs. May signed up to a so-called Irish backstop.
The plan would keep the whole of the United Kingdom under some European Union rules if a broader trade agreement could not obviate the need for frontier checks.
It was Mrs. May’s government that fought to extend the backstop to the whole of the United Kingdom as opposed to just Northern Ireland, partly in an unsuccessful effort to placate its Northern Irish partner, the Democratic Unionists.
The backstop, intended as an insurance policy, enraged hard-line Brexit supporters who want to break free of European regulations and argue that it would “enslave” the whole of Britain to Brussels.
Mr. Johnson has said he will not accept the backstop or even a time limit upon it, insisting that whatever happens, the British will not put controls on the Northern Ireland border.
That effectively passes the problem to the Irish government, which will have responsibility for policing the European Union’s economic rule book and single market and will have to introduce some checks — even if it hates the idea.
The Irish continue to have full support from their European Union colleagues in demanding that the backstop be part of any divorce agreement that would prevent a no-deal Brexit.
The Irish prime minister, Leo Varadkar, said after a first phone call with Mr. Johnson that the backstop remained necessary for a deal, and Irish officials emphasized that the peace established in the Good Friday accords must not be shattered.
On Wednesday, Mary Lou McDonald, president of Sinn Féin, which promotes a united Ireland, wrote on Twitter that Mr. Johnson was “on course to upend our peace and prosperity with his eyes wide open.”
In a BBC interview she predicted that a “no-deal” Brexit would create chaos. “In the event of a crash Brexit or hard Brexit, I can’t see for the life of me how anyone can sustain the argument for the status quo,” she said.
In those circumstances, she argued, Northern Ireland should be allowed a referendum on Irish unity. Under the Good Friday Agreement, such a “border poll” can be triggered if there is clear evidence of support for a united Ireland.
Concerns about the consequences of a no-deal Brexit, shared by Mr. Varadkar, were dismissed by Arlene Foster, leader of the Democratic Unionist Party, whose 10 lawmakers at Westminster prop up Mr. Johnson’s government. She described such statements as “Project Fear Mark Two.”
Most analysts believe a united Ireland is a distant prospect, but Brexit has put the idea onto the agenda. Business and agricultural sectors in particular have warned of the risks of a no-deal Brexit, saying that as many as 40,000 jobs in Northern Ireland could be lost.
Politics in Belfast is at an impasse, meanwhile, and the assembly in Northern Ireland that shares power between parties representing the different communities has been suspended for more than two years.
Speaking in Belfast, Mr. Johnson said he would do everything in his power to restore it, but Nichola Mallon, deputy leader of the Social Democratic and Labour Party, accused him of having “a limited understanding of the complexities and fragilities of this place.”
Civil servants in Belfast now run most things in Northern Ireland, but they would probably have insufficient powers for some of the decisions that would be needed after a no-deal Brexit.
That would most likely mean the imposition of direct rule from London, something that Dublin fears would be a bad signal and could inflame tensions.
The atmosphere is already strained. Mr. Johnson angered some local politicians by having a private dinner with his political ally Ms. Foster on Tuesday, prompting accusations that he was her party’s “gofer.”
In Ireland, Mr. Johnson has been criticized over his lack of engagement with Mr. Varadkar. They had a brief phone call on Tuesday that yielded no progress; Mr. Johnson restated his objections to the backstop while Mr. Varadkar reiterated his commitment to it.
Mr. Johnson argues that there is no point in holding more Brexit talks so long as the European Union insists on the backstop — a message Mr. Johnson’s top Europe adviser, David Frost, is expected to deliver during a visit to Brussels this week.
And Mr. Varadkar is unwilling to get into separate negotiations with London on Brexit; these negotiations are handled by Brussels in part to ensure that Ireland is not pushed around by Britain.
Still, Mr. Johnson hopes that given the significant economic damage likely to befall Ireland in the event of a no-deal Brexit, pressure will mount on Dublin to draw back.
In The Daily Telegraph, Nick Timothy, a former aide to Mrs. May, argued that Ireland had overplayed its hand and that “the backstop is supposed to stop a hard border, but by making the withdrawal agreement unratifiable, it is making no-deal and a hard border more likely.”
The Irish argue that the main economic victim of a no-deal Brexit will be Northern Ireland. So far there is little sign of Dublin or Brussels budging. On Wednesday, Michael Martin, leader of Ireland’s opposition Fianna Fáil party, described Mr. Johnson’s position as “unacceptable,” adding that it “is not within the realms of normal diplomatic or political behavior.”