
LONDON — British lawmakers passed a measure on Thursday to stop the next prime minister from suspending Parliament and forcing through a no-deal Brexit, undermining the hard-line strategy of Boris Johnson, who is expected to win the job of prime minister next week.
The vote posed an early test of how Mr. Johnson’s fellow Conservatives would respond to hints that he might shut down Parliament to keep lawmakers from delaying Brexit again, after three years of political chaos that thwarted the current prime minister’s efforts to complete a deal for Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union.
Mr. Johnson’s critics have called a potential suspension of Parliament undemocratic, and said that it would threaten to draw the queen into the middle of the Brexit fight.
Lawmakers strongly backed the proposal, voting 315 to 274 and denting Mr. Johnson’s authority even before he has had the chance to enter Downing Street. The measure leaves the door open for lawmakers to register their support for another Brexit delay before the current deadline of Oct. 31.
Prime Minister Theresa May’s cabinet has been split over whether to give Parliament the power to stop an exit from the European Union without a deal, and those divisions spilled into the open on Thursday. Her government officially opposed the measure, but one of her cabinet ministers resigned to vote for it and several others abstained, signaling their tacit support.
Those who abstained effectively dared Mrs. May to fire them. She did not, though a statement from her office presaged a likely housecleaning of moderate ministers, who will almost certainly be ousted if Mr. Johnson becomes the Conservative Party leader.
Opinion is divided about whether the measure that passed on Thursday fully blocks a suspension of Parliament. But the size of the victory will embolden lawmakers who oppose a no-deal Brexit, however, and strengthen the arguments of some on Mr. Johnson’s team who would prefer to avoid suspending Parliament.
transcript
A brash former mayor of London. “The chances of me being prime minister are about as good as finding Elvis on Mars.” Known to many for his political opportunism and for his staunch support of Brexit. “Let’s take back control of huge sums of money, take back control of immigration, take back control of our democracy. Let’s vote for freedom.” Boris Johnson is the embattled prime minister of Britain. So, who is he? Johnson worked for many years as a journalist in Britain. He was fired by The London Times for inventing a quote. It was in Brussels where Johnson made a name for himself writing for The Daily Telegraph. He wrote a string of articles ridiculing European Union bureaucracy that were often exaggerated or wrong. In 2008, he was elected mayor of London. “I declare Boris Johnson the next mayor of London.” He was re-elected four years later. It was London’s 2012 Summer Olympics that put him on the radar for many people in the rest of the world. But in Britain, he’s been associated with one thing in recent years: Brexit. “Now this is a once in a lifetime chance for us to take back control of this country.” When he was mayor of London, Johnson sometimes spoke favorably about the common market with the European Union. But perhaps recognizing a political opportunity, Johnson became one of Brexit’s most vocal supporters. “When you look at the E.U. now, it makes me think of some badly designed undergarment that has now become too tight in some places and dangerously loose in other places.” Johnson’s critics say his strong backing for leaving the European Union was purely tactical. And after a successful campaign, Theresa May named him foreign secretary in 2016. But Johnson said he thought May’s Brexit proposal was too conciliatory to Europe. Rather than supporting her plan, Johnson resigned in protest. “I will shortly leave the job.” When May announced she was stepping aside as prime minister, the stars aligned for Johnson to take over the job he always wanted. “I am standing to be leader of the Conservative Party.” Johnson has vowed that Britain will leave the European Union on Oct. 31, with or without a deal. “I want everybody to know there are no circumstances in which I will ask Brussels to delay. We’re leaving on the 31st of October, no ifs or buts.” But he’s facing some opposition to a no-deal Brexit, even within his own Conservative Party. About the only thing Parliament can agree on is that it doesn’t support a no-deal Brexit. So Johnson has taken to hardball tactics from suspending Parliament, to threatening to kick out rebel Tories for voting against the government. It’s a strategy that may be uniting disparate elements of the opposition and his own party against him. So what’s next? So far, lots of uncertainty. Parliament is considering whether to hold a general election. So Johnson finds himself in familiar territory: facing the same Brexit chaos that took down the two previous Conservative prime ministers.
Mr. Johnson has entertained the idea of shutting down the legislature in the fall to ensure that, with or without a deal, Britain leaves the European Union on Oct. 31. But his hand was already weakened because the Conservatives have a slim working majority in Parliament, and lawmakers who had trusted Mrs. May to avert a no-deal Brexit do not appear willing to take the same chance with him holding the reins.
Opponents of a no-deal Brexit have been desperately searching for a way to push their plan through, and in the end they attached it to a technical bill related to Northern Ireland. Their amendment means that even if the next prime minister suspends Parliament, it would automatically be recalled and lawmakers would have five days to sit, during which they could try to force the prime minister to seek a Brexit extension.
The cabinet minister who resigned, Margot James, said after the vote that some lawmakers had more faith in 
“My constituents voted emphatically to leave and I will honor that,” Ms. James said. “But when it comes to protecting the right of Parliament, that is really important.”
Philip Hammond, the chancellor of the Exchequer who has recently ratcheted up warnings about the economic damage of a no-deal Brexit, broke with Mrs. May by abstaining on the vote.
“The Conservative Party has always, at its core, had a fundamental belief in the importance of strong institutions — and in a representative democracy there can be no more vital institution than its Parliament,” he 
Economists have cautioned that a no-deal Brexit 
The agency, the Office for Budget Responsibility, said a no-deal Brexit would force the government to borrow tens of billions of pounds more for each of the next several years to cope with a contracting economy and plummeting tax payments.
The value of the British pound, 