
Earlier this month, Boris Johnson, the pro-Brexit human juggernaut who is likely to become the 
It also upset Mr. Johnson’s sister, Rachel, in a manner peculiar to the competitive, tight-knit, look-at-me Johnson clan, which holds a place in British life somewhere in the large, amorphous space between the Kennedys and the Kardashians.
transcript
A brash former mayor of London. “The chances of me being prime minister are about as good as finding Elvis on Mars.” Known to many for his political opportunism and for his staunch support of Brexit. “Let’s take back control of huge sums of money, take back control of immigration, take back control of our democracy. Let’s vote for freedom.” Boris Johnson is the embattled prime minister of Britain. So, who is he? Johnson worked for many years as a journalist in Britain. He was fired by The London Times for inventing a quote. It was in Brussels where Johnson made a name for himself writing for The Daily Telegraph. He wrote a string of articles ridiculing European Union bureaucracy that were often exaggerated or wrong. In 2008, he was elected mayor of London. “I declare Boris Johnson the next mayor of London.” He was re-elected four years later. It was London’s 2012 Summer Olympics that put him on the radar for many people in the rest of the world. But in Britain, he’s been associated with one thing in recent years: Brexit. “Now this is a once in a lifetime chance for us to take back control of this country.” When he was mayor of London, Johnson sometimes spoke favorably about the common market with the European Union. But perhaps recognizing a political opportunity, Johnson became one of Brexit’s most vocal supporters. “When you look at the E.U. now, it makes me think of some badly designed undergarment that has now become too tight in some places and dangerously loose in other places.” Johnson’s critics say his strong backing for leaving the European Union was purely tactical. And after a successful campaign, Theresa May named him foreign secretary in 2016. But Johnson said he thought May’s Brexit proposal was too conciliatory to Europe. Rather than supporting her plan, Johnson resigned in protest. “I will shortly leave the job.” When May announced she was stepping aside as prime minister, the stars aligned for Johnson to take over the job he always wanted. “I am standing to be leader of the Conservative Party.” Johnson has vowed that Britain will leave the European Union on Oct. 31, with or without a deal. “I want everybody to know there are no circumstances in which I will ask Brussels to delay. We’re leaving on the 31st of October, no ifs or buts.” But he’s facing some opposition to a no-deal Brexit, even within his own Conservative Party. About the only thing Parliament can agree on is that it doesn’t support a no-deal Brexit. So Johnson has taken to hardball tactics from suspending Parliament, to threatening to kick out rebel Tories for voting against the government. It’s a strategy that may be uniting disparate elements of the opposition and his own party against him. So what’s next? So far, lots of uncertainty. Parliament is considering whether to hold a general election. So Johnson finds himself in familiar territory: facing the same Brexit chaos that took down the two previous Conservative prime ministers.
Like her youngest brother and her father, both of whom were once implacable opponents of Brexit (and both of whom have since changed positions), Rachel Johnson has had to perform a complicated jujitsu around her big brother’s candidacy. So, for that matter, have many Conservative politicians who were once in the Never-Boris camp but who in recent weeks have come around to something like an “Only Boris” philosophy.
It is perhaps more complicated within the family itself. Whether because of sibling loyalty, or because they have been warned to behave, or because they just want to burnish their personal brands in preparation for Boris’s ascent, the Johnsons appear to be taking the approach that blood is thicker than political conviction.
So Rachel responded to the English-first flap with a tweet that was classic Johnson. It ensured that she was part of the story. It obscured its implicit criticism of her brother’s remarks with an ad hominem jab implying that political disagreements can be reduced to family jokes. And it allowed her to demonstrate how rarefied the Johnsons are, how different from you and me, in this case because of their classical educations and hyper-articulate cleverness.
“We spoke Ancient Greek at home,” 
The presidency of Donald J. Trump thrust his family into a loud and central position in American public life. The Johnsons are already minor celebrities in Britain because of their high profile in London’s concentrated media-political hothouse. If all goes as expected and Mr. Johnson becomes prime minister this coming week, this family of overachievers with dueling opinions will have to adjust to a reality in which one member has overachieved his way to the top.
Rachel, 53 — a columnist, novelist, former magazine editor, talk-show talking head and reality TV star who ran (unsuccessfully) for a seat in the European Parliament this spring on a pro-Remain platform — is not the only high-profile relative of Boris.
There is also Stanley, the 78-year-old family patriarch and a lifelong Europhile who now supports Brexit after opposing it; and Jo, 47, a younger brother and Conservative member of Parliament who voted Remain in the Brexit referendum and changed his position later.
Interestingly enough, the family all calls Boris “Al” — short for Alexander, his actual first name. “Boris is like some sort of public construct that is wheeled out” in nonfamily occasions, the novelist and political commentator Robert Harris said in an interview.
A third brother, Leo, 51, the only brunet in a family of blinding blondness, is a sustainability expert and BBC radio host who once said that “I love Boris as a brother but I don’t want to talk about his day job.” There are also two half siblings from Stanley’s second marriage.
In private, the Brexit debate has caused all of sorts of difficulties for the family.
“There are various tensions going on,” said Sonia Purnell, author of the biography “Just Boris.” “It’s clear that Jo and Rachel are totally pro-Remain and were aghast and dismayed at what their brother did, but they’re perhaps a bit scared of him, particularly Rachel. There’s also the historic feeling that they had to fend for each other as kids, and so they have a pretty unbreakable bond.”
The family’s current public position is that nothing would be better than for Boris to get the job.
“I’m delighted and proud as punch. What father wouldn’t be?” Stanley said in an interview. A writer, broadcaster, campaigner for environmental causes and former Remainer, Stanley has the same shock of white-blond hair, I’m-thinking-wicked-thoughts expression and air of dishevelment as his more famous son.
Ian Hislop, editor of the satirical magazine Private Eye, called the Johnsons “our comic version of the Kennedys,” though with everyone else existing somewhat unhappily in Boris’s shadow. Not that there aren’t opportunities.
In recent years, Stanley has parlayed his Johnson-ness into appearances on numerous British reality TV shows.
“Of course this is a bittersweet moment for me given that I spent 20 years in Europe, both as a member of the European Parliament and as a senior official of the European Commission,” he said.
Indeed, even as Boris was orchestrating the “Leave” campaign before the Brexit referendum, Stanley was campaigning on the Remain side as co-founder of a group called Environmentalists for Europe.
“But we lost,” Stanley said. In 2017, he switched positions, became a Brexiteer and is now Fan No. 1 on the Boris bandwagon. Stanley and Rachel — who has spent much of the past three years publicly lamenting her brother’s political views — were in the audience at the most recent Conservative Party conference, applauding Boris’s speech.
“I believe Boris is probably the one person capable of sorting out the Brexit mess,” his father said.
The elder Mr. Johnson said he could not speak for Boris’s siblings and their own internal moral calculations. Rachel, known for rarely passing up a chance to voice her opinion, among other things, demurred on this occasion.
“Aieeee!!” she said via text. “I want to help but if I help you, I have to rebuff a million trillion outlets.”
The family’s youngest brother, Jo, the Conservative member of Parliament, said via email that he was “sorry not to be helpful on this occasion.”
But Jo’s own political journey — from anti-Brexit to reluctantly pro-Brexit to full-fledged Boris-ite — has perhaps been more tortuous than most. After his side lost in the Brexit referendum, he joined Prime Minister Theresa May’s cabinet with the goal of helping to deliver a good Brexit agreement.
“Brexit has divided the country,” he said in his resignation letter. “It has divided political parties. 
But Jo’s effort to lead the movement for a new referendum fizzled. And soon, the family divisions he had written of seemed to fade away. When Boris eventually announced his candidacy for party leader, 
Recently, the two campaigned together in Kent, where 
It is true that Boris has a history of provocative I’m-just-speaking-the-truth pronouncements that 
And so last August, he precipitated a typical Johnson-style imbroglio when he asserted, 
Responding in her own column in The Mail on Sunday, Rachel affected a general tone of airy amusement, as if the issue were nothing more than another family quarrel. 
But her main criticism was that Boris should have called for an outright ban on burqas — 
The whole thing spurred 
“Silence does not mean consent,” he said. “Would be great if this round of competitive bigotry could end.”
Or, as Rachel wrote 