
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering the sliding 
Investors have taken Boris Johnson’s ascension to the role of prime minister as the impetus to evacuate their money ahead of a potential disaster, and the 
The slide is expected to continue, perhaps right up until Oct. 31, the day Britain is scheduled to depart the European bloc. The moves are now gradual, reflecting a continued downgrading of sentiment rather than a meaningful change to the economy. But as Oct. 31 draws closer, 
Ten presidential candidates 
Senators Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders, the leading liberal populists and the marquee matchup for the night, 
More than 900 children 
The separations are occurring over crimes committed by adults, but some are as minor as having a traffic citation for driving without a license or not changing a baby’s diaper. 
Two Beijing-backed leaders from the Xinjiang region said most inmates in a sprawling network of re-education camps had 
But the U.S. government, experts and members of the Muslim minority groups that have been targeted by the camps said there was no evidence of mass releases and that it was unclear how much freedom released inmates actually enjoyed. One researcher said the government was moving inmates into coercive labor programs and “transitioning from internment to societywide control.”
Protesters in France are increasingly angry about 
He disappeared at a concert where the police fired tear gas to disperse the crowd. Hundreds of protesters gathered earlier this month in Nantes to form a human chain along the Loire, asking, “Where is Steve?”
We also have advice on 
The tourist traps are open, but it’ll be hard to find a baker, plumber or dry cleaner in Europe next month, as much of the Continent races off to the beach for all of August. How did that happen?
Before the 1930s, 
The nascent travel industry picked up the gauntlet, especially as the spread of the automobile and improved roads made skipping town easier. 
In the United States, President William Howard Taft 
But nothing came of his proposal. There is still no U.S. law requiring paid days off, and many Americans 
Despite the extended holiday, or perhaps because of it, 
That’s it for this briefing. Have a toil-less August, if you’re among the lucky vacationers. 
— Melina