
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering the Kremlin’s 
The hospital treating the Russian opposition leader Aleksei Navalny sent him back to prison without identifying the cause of the illness, 
Unease among his fellow opposition members and supporters stemmed from the Kremlin’s long history of eliminating its opponents, often by poisoning them.
A chorus of 
In his rush to leave the E.U., he has been accused of jeopardizing the much older union that he leads: that of England, Scotland, Northern Ireland and Wales.
Mr. Johnson did his best to defuse that risk during his trip, promising hundreds of millions of pounds for Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, and appealing for a renewal of “the ties that bind our United Kingdom.” He also softened his tone around the prospect of a no-deal Brexit.
But 
There are few signs of progress on the most difficult issues: new protections for American intellectual property, which U.S. products China would agree to buy, and how many of Mr. Trump’s tariffs on $250 billion in Chinese goods would persist.
Five months into a popular uprising that pushed out President Abdelaziz Bouteflika after 20 years in power, an 
That the movement has so far been bloodless makes it perhaps unique in the Arab world, protesters and analysts say. The police and their armored vehicles line the marchers’ route, but they stand by silently, wary of initiating a violent confrontation.
A fraud has flourished on Facebook and Instagram, where scammers pretend to be U.S. service members 
The deception has defrauded thousands and smeared the reputations of soldiers, airmen, sailors and Marines. It has also led to tragedy.
 
And the experts at Wirecutter, a Times site, have compiled a list of 
Six female candidates are vying for the Democratic presidential nomination, but almost 
The term dates to 1978, when female employees 
Hillary Clinton made the phrase a staple of her presidential campaigns and noted, upon her 2016 loss, that the United States still had not shattered that “highest and hardest glass ceiling.” 
But the 2020 candidates are using other language: Senator Kamala Harris prefers to talk about her willingness to “break things,” while her colleague Elizabeth Warren has vowed to “persist.”
“Words have their moments, especially colloquialisms,” the linguist Robin Lakoff told The Times last week, noting that glass ceiling “seems tired.”
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Melina