
Boris Johnson,
Retribution? Johnson has played with his country, treating it like one of his many dalliances, with a sloppiness and fecklessness no wit or charm can excuse. He backed a British exit from the European Union on a whim — in the expectation it would be rejected — and has since become a pawn of the Brexit ultras, the crazed little-England monomaniacs who have now delivered him to 10 Downing Street.
It is a 
In Donald Trump, consuming vanity is coupled with consuming ignorance. Johnson is equally vain but not equally ignorant. Trump’s wacko meets Johnson’s eccentricity.
Johnson has lied, pandered and guffawed his disheveled way to the highest office in the land, aping the bumbling buffoon and doing great damage. But he’s no fool. He knows his comeuppance is upon him.
Unless Johnson, who once penned a book called “The Churchill Factor,” is suddenly inhabited by an access of statesmanship, he could well become the shortest-lived prime minister in British history.
A single issue awaits him: Brexit. (Well, Iran may raise its head.) His deadline for British extrication is October 31. By then he must pull off the 
Mr. Can-Do — on a good day, maybe, when the emptiness at his core is not gnawing — either pulls a rabbit out of his hat in the form of a new Brexit deal better than his predecessor’s, which 
Johnson’s three months and change are in fact more like two. Europe goes AWOL in August. The patience of the European Union with the British farce is about exhausted.
Yet the incoming prime minister believes he can, in such short order, secure meaningful changes to Theresa May’s deal, including in the “backstop,” an insurance policy to preserve an open border between the Irish Republic (remains in the European Union) and Northern Ireland (which leaves with Brexit). The backstop has enraged hard-line Brexiteers, who see it as a Trojan horse for keeping Britain in the customs union forever.
The 
It’s a Boris question. 
Does he really want to be Trump’s poodle begging for some trade accord to offset Brexit’s cost to British commerce? Does he really want to cozy up to an American president who says he could, if he chose, wipe Afghanistan 
Or will Johnson, at the last, listen to reason? Brexit has proved undeliverable because it 
Johnson has many enemies, a paper-thin parliamentary majority, and the tightest of deadlines. His chances of getting a new deal through Parliament by October 31, or actually propelling Britain over the cliff of a no-deal Brexit, are slim to nonexistent.
So what then? He can 
As Fintan O’Toole has pointed out in The New York Review of Books, 
If Johnson remains in character, his nemesis will likely be swift and bloody. Or, just possibly, he could choose to be remembered not for his manifold faults but for a single act of bravery. He once wrote a book about that.