
Throughout history, chaos has often been a crucible of great leadership. Yet with Britain in the throes of its biggest political crisis since World War II, it will be surprising if that turns out to be the case this time.
Boris Johnson prepared to 
The prospect of a Johnson government has already spread alarm even through the senior ranks of his party. Several Conservatives voted with the opposition last week to block possible efforts by Mr. Johnson to circumvent Parliament in his drive for a no-deal Brexit.
The chief challenge before Mr. Johnson comes on Oct. 31, when Britain must leave the European Union with or without a deal. Theresa May, who resigned as prime minister after her plan for a negotiated break with the European Union was thrice rejected by Parliament, managed at least to postpone the deadline. 
Mr. Johnson, however, is among the most vociferous champions of making a break no matter what. In his campaign for the Conservative leadership, he argued both that he knows how to get a better deal from the European Commission and that he welcomes a “hard Brexit” on Oct. 31.
Nobody believes that Mr. Johnson, who is widely disdained in Brussels, especially after his gaffe-prone stint as foreign secretary, will be able to wrest a better deal than the diligent Mrs. May got in two years of negotiations.
And 
Such realities seem not to worry Mr. Johnson any more than facts trouble President Trump or any of the new nationalist leaders in Europe. Their popularity is built on emotional appeals to a national glory purportedly lost to globalization and treacherous bureaucracy. To them, “sovereignty,” “the people” and “the nation” are the noble opposite of multilateral cooperation and the prosaic expertise of the unelected people who do the work of government. 
Brexit, in this context, is liberation from the diktat of an alien Brussels. In resigning from Mrs. May’s cabinet a year ago, Mr. Johnson 
Now Mr. Johnson’s bombast is about to collide with the realities that undermined Mrs. May’s efforts. The European Union will not allow the 
Mr. Johnson lacks the respect in Brussels, and in London, that would enable him to push through an unpopular action. So opposed are some of his fellow Tories to a no-deal Brexit that, according to the BBC, a few of them are apparently considering a formal request to have the queen seek an extension in Brussels if Mr. Johnson barrels ahead.
There is always the possibility that Mr. Johnson will rise to the occasion, and that at the least he will accept the need for another extension of the Brexit deadline, if possible. If not, the politicians who do understand the danger Britain faces must not give in.