
LONDON — Where the River Thames empties into the North Sea, 
To study the idea, Mr. Johnson, London’s new mayor, tried to enlist a leading scientist, Prof. David King, who balked at the plan while offering to look into other uses for the waterway. So the professor was taken aback when Mr. Johnson publicly named him chairman of a team investigating 
The mayor assured him, “Ah David, it’ll be all right,” Professor King recalled, but it was not all right. Like several of Mr. Johnson’s marquee projects as mayor, the island airport plan sucked up millions of pounds in planning fees, but never went anywhere against nearly unanimous opposition and practical hurdles.
transcript
A brash former mayor of London. “The chances of me being prime minister are about as good as finding Elvis on Mars.” Known to many for his political opportunism and for his staunch support of Brexit. “Let’s take back control of huge sums of money, take back control of immigration, take back control of our democracy. Let’s vote for freedom.” Boris Johnson is the embattled prime minister of Britain. So, who is he? Johnson worked for many years as a journalist in Britain. He was fired by The London Times for inventing a quote. It was in Brussels where Johnson made a name for himself writing for The Daily Telegraph. He wrote a string of articles ridiculing European Union bureaucracy that were often exaggerated or wrong. In 2008, he was elected mayor of London. “I declare Boris Johnson the next mayor of London.” He was re-elected four years later. It was London’s 2012 Summer Olympics that put him on the radar for many people in the rest of the world. But in Britain, he’s been associated with one thing in recent years: Brexit. “Now this is a once in a lifetime chance for us to take back control of this country.” When he was mayor of London, Johnson sometimes spoke favorably about the common market with the European Union. But perhaps recognizing a political opportunity, Johnson became one of Brexit’s most vocal supporters. “When you look at the E.U. now, it makes me think of some badly designed undergarment that has now become too tight in some places and dangerously loose in other places.” Johnson’s critics say his strong backing for leaving the European Union was purely tactical. And after a successful campaign, Theresa May named him foreign secretary in 2016. But Johnson said he thought May’s Brexit proposal was too conciliatory to Europe. Rather than supporting her plan, Johnson resigned in protest. “I will shortly leave the job.” When May announced she was stepping aside as prime minister, the stars aligned for Johnson to take over the job he always wanted. “I am standing to be leader of the Conservative Party.” Johnson has vowed that Britain will leave the European Union on Oct. 31, with or without a deal. “I want everybody to know there are no circumstances in which I will ask Brussels to delay. We’re leaving on the 31st of October, no ifs or buts.” But he’s facing some opposition to a no-deal Brexit, even within his own Conservative Party. About the only thing Parliament can agree on is that it doesn’t support a no-deal Brexit. So Johnson has taken to hardball tactics from suspending Parliament, to threatening to kick out rebel Tories for voting against the government. It’s a strategy that may be uniting disparate elements of the opposition and his own party against him. So what’s next? So far, lots of uncertainty. Parliament is considering whether to hold a general election. So Johnson finds himself in familiar territory: facing the same Brexit chaos that took down the two previous Conservative prime ministers.
He is the 
During his two terms as London mayor, he read the public mood and aimed millions of pounds the same way, whatever dire warnings his briefing papers contained. His most recent high-profile job, foreign secretary, found him ill at ease in a role that required more gravitas than grandiloquence.
But the next prime minister will face perhaps Britain’s greatest peacetime crisis, Brexit, one that turns on the sort of labyrinthine details that Mr. Johnson so avoids. His promise to extract Britain from the European Union by the end of October has left many Britons worrying that he will send the country hurtling toward a potentially calamitous no-deal Brexit.
Even allies acknowledge that Mr. Johnson sees himself as someone focused on the big picture, rather than on the details of governance. He is intuitive and improvisational, they say, often junking a prepared text when making a speech.
“What he does is he picks up the vibration of the moment, of the day, and then he understands the way to go,” said Ray Lewis, an adviser to Mr. Johnson at London’s City Hall. Mr. Johnson takes a broad view, Mr. Lewis said, in a way that reminded him of what it’s like to daydream about rescuing a love interest from an enchanted castle. The technicalities aren’t the point.
“I never thought about where I got the horse from, or the helmet,” Mr. Lewis said. “I just had the big picture. And Boris will have the big picture.”
After a career as a journalist, Mr. Johnson was elected to Parliament in 2001, where he was enmeshed in some controversy, and was fired from the opposition leadership team, after 
The job of mayor, created in 2000, has limited powers. But his record in City Hall offers a hint of his helter-skelter style, and of the charm that distracted many Britons from his profligate mistakes.
“There are no disasters,” he joked after the controversy involving his affair, “only opportunities. And, indeed, opportunities for fresh disasters.”
When calling for a Thames airport, Mr. Johnson was undaunted by research on rising water levels, by the apparent contradiction of building in an international bird habitat — or by being confronted by Professor King, who found himself named to head the study, though he had refused to take part.
“He said, ‘Oh, silly me, silly me,’ or something like that, and fluffed his hair,” Professor King recalled.
Mr. Johnson’s tenure as mayor produced other costly failures, such as the “Boris bus.” Ken Livingstone, Mr. Johnson’s predecessor as London mayor, had scrapped a beloved model of a double-decker bus (equipped with an open-air rear doorway) and replaced it with “bendy buses,” which were longer and roomier. Some Londoners regarded them as modern, soulless monstrosities on the city’s narrow streets.
Tapping into that anger, Mr. Johnson vowed to revive the classic model and even brought back onboard ticket sellers, despite warnings from transport officials that the plan was not economically viable.
Within a few years, the onboard ticket sellers were scrapped, the open-air doorways were sealed shut, and the “Boris bus” came to be known mostly for 
“He liked to fly by the seat of his pants on things like this, and he was more than happy to bluff or lie,” said Jenny Jones, a London Assembly member for the Green Party at the time.
Mr. Johnson, at that time already being discussed as a future prime minister, seemed enamored of the status and power of City Hall, but “bored with the whole concept of politics and taking responsibility,” Ms. Jones said. “I wouldn’t trust him to feed my cat.”
Nothing burnished Mr. Johnson’s brand like the London Olympics in 2012. He reveled in the chance to sell Londoners on their city, and to sell himself to the world. But afterward, his decision to convert the Olympic Stadium to accommodate a Premier League soccer club 
He also pursued a plan to build a “
And then there were the three, 25-year-old German water cannons that he purchased in the name of dispelling possible rioters. He volunteered to be blasted by one himself, to show it was safe, and went forward with the purchases despite warnings from experts that they were ill suited for London.
Theresa May, then the home secretary, 
“It was a strange purchase, and of course, history shows it was a substantial waste of public funds,” said Hugh Orde, a former chief constable in Northern Ireland, who had warned the London Assembly about the plans.
Mr. Johnson did oversee some successes, like the expansion of cycling in London, an idea born under his predecessor, Mr. Livingstone, that the new mayor realized with a 
“He will ride above everything and hope it’s delivered,” said Andrew Boff, a Conservative member of the London Assembly. “Sometimes that sounds good, but sometimes you’ve got to care a bit more. You’ve got to actually care about some of the things you’re delivering.”
But for Mr. Johnson, the blunders rarely stuck.
“His mistakes or perceived errors were always seen as evidence of his authenticity,” said Tony Travers, a professor of government at the London School of Economics. Many had expected chaos and were pleasantly surprised when the buses kept running and, after a turbulent start at City Hall, Mr. Johnson proved adept at delegating and chose an able chief of staff.
In 2016, no longer mayor, Mr. Johnson was an architect of the Brexit victory and a favorite to become prime minister. But the job went to Mrs. May, and, to much surprise, she appointed him foreign secretary, partly to keep him away from domestic politics.
Given his role in the Brexit campaign, his reception among European counterparts was chilly and his language proved anything but diplomatic. He compared the former French president, François Hollande, to an officer in a World War II prisoner of war camp; suggested that business would invest in Libya once dead bodies had been cleared away; and recited a colonial-era poem at a Burmese temple.
Perhaps his biggest blunder was at a parliamentary committee in 2017, when he incorrectly told lawmakers that an Anglo-Iranian woman being held in Tehran, 
He lasted two years as foreign secretary and then resigned from the cabinet in July 2018, after undermining Mrs. May’s Brexit strategy and claiming that Britain was “truly headed for the status of colony.”
In his pursuit to become prime minister, Mr. Johnson has adapted his old habits — the theatrics, the polysyllabic put-downs, the outlandish plans — for the Brexit era. Just as he used big-ticket ideas as London mayor to put a gloss on difficult circumstances, so he has tried to deflect from some of the complexities of Brexit, too.
Among other suggestions, he has floated the idea of building another bridge, not across the Thames, but 