
LONDON — Britain’s High Court on Friday threw out an attempt to prosecute 
Mr. Johnson, a former foreign minister, was told last week that he had to address in court 
Opponents of Brexit say the figure was a wild misrepresentation made to mislead voters. The figure does not account for Britain’s rebate, which is deducted before it sends money to Brussels. Britain’s net contribution to the European Union in April 2016 was about £190 million a week, according to the Office for National Statistics.
On Friday, judges at the High Court in London overturned the earlier decision, meaning that Mr. Johnson would not be called to answer the charges. The High Court did not give a reason for its decision, 
Mr. Johnson could not be reached for comment on Friday, but he has denied any wrongdoing.
Lawyers for Mr. Johnson argued that “public debate about the accuracy or otherwise of the £350 million continues to this day,” Reuters reported. Adrian Darbishire, one of Mr. Johnson’s lawyers, called the case politically motivated.
In a 
“This is not over,” he wrote. “I have a duty to my country to keep fighting lying in politics, and I take it bloody seriously.”
The decision removed a potential hurdle from Mr. Johnson’s ambition to be the next Conservative Party leader after Mrs. May stepped down on Friday. He is the front-runner in a crowded field to lead the party and the country.
After Mrs. May’s resignation, the 1922 Committee of Conservative lawmakers on Friday formally invited nominations from candidates in Parliament who want to run for party leader. Nominations will close on Monday, according to a statement emailed on Friday. Mrs. May will remain prime minister and acting party leader until a successor is chosen.
Mr. Johnson’s candidacy and front-runner status have been called 
The case against Mr. Johnson appeared unusual because it sought to prosecute him over a campaign pledge — albeit one that many supporters of Brexit have since abandoned, saying it had been a “mistake.”
But it was not the first case directly or indirectly linked to Brexit since the referendum. In 2016, 
Such cases have managed to slow down but not stop the march toward Brexit.