
LONDON — A year ago, John Rawlins joined the Conservative Party with a mission: to inject some zeal for a no-deal Brexit into a party then wary of it.
He tried to expel his local Conservative lawmaker, a moderate, from his seat. Two weeks ago, he voted for Boris Johnson to take over as party leader and prime minister, exercising his rights as a dues-paying Conservative member. And later that day, he quit the party.
Mr. Rawlins’s brief and eventful period in the Conservative rank-and-file made him part of a stampede of new members. Roughly 40,000 people have joined in the last year, pushing overall membership to 160,000.
Now, there are questions about whether this new wave has helped radicalize a party already swerving right, distorting the process of choosing the next prime minister while nudging the Conservatives — and Britain itself — toward a no-deal Brexit.
Middle-of-the-road Conservatives fear what one lawmaker called a “Talibanization” of the party, with a segment of Brexit apostles exploiting loose party membership rules to wreak havoc. People like Mr. Rawlins, who had long voted Conservative without being a member, say they are simply trying to get through to an out-of-touch party.
“My primary goal was to be able to try and influence the party so that we did get a clean leave,” Mr. Rawlins said, referring to splitting with the European Union without a deal. “That’s what it’s all about now.”
The stakes are high.
Prime Minister Theresa May
Ordinarily, this would be routine in Britain’s parliamentary democracy: Many other prime ministers, including Mrs. May, have risen to power without a general election. But the next prime minister will immediately be under tremendous pressure, as Britain stares at an 
This means that those 40,000 new Tory members suddenly have a say in deciding the country’s fate.
How many of them have come from other parties or harbor competing loyalties is largely a mystery to Conservative leaders. Mr. Rawlins, for instance, flirted this spring with 
But as a group, new members appear to lean toward Mr. Johnson, who has pledged to carry out Brexit by Oct. 31, no matter what.
Polling earlier in the contest found that more than half of Mr. Johnson’s supporters in the party 
Though Mr. Rawlins left the party, many newcomers are staying, and whether the Conservatives remain a broad church or become a club for dedicated supporters of Brexit will in part shape the future of British politics.
“The Conservative Party, famed for 150-plus years for its pragmatism, has effectively become an ideological party, or at least its members have,” said Tony Travers, a professor of government at the London School of Economics. “Even if you do have a reasonable filter, you can’t stop a party being shifted quickly in one direction or another by individuals whose views are significantly to one side of its median policy position.”
As it stands, almost anyone willing to pay the 25 pound annual membership fee — about $30 — can join, and while local party officials do cursory internet searches on applicants’ names, they do not tend to bar people merely for dabbling in rival parties. That can create difficult questions for a political system dominated by two parties, in which joining either the Conservatives or the opposition Labour Party can give voters vastly disproportionate power.
Arron Banks, a major pro-Brexit donor 
Mr. Banks’s organization, Leave.EU, has said that hundreds of people have clicked through from its Facebook advertisements to the sign-up pages of their local Conservative associations. And when the organization sniffs mounting anger within the party at moderate lawmakers, it begins gathering the names of those willing to challenge them.
“It’s e-Harmony for discontented Conservative members,” Mr. Banks said in an interview, referring to the dating app. “What we’re doing is putting huge pressure on Remain members of Parliament to keep their heads below the parapet and stop the number of people voting that way.”
Labour 
The entire Conservative grass roots has grown increasingly exasperated by the government’s failure to deliver Brexit and become even more hard-line of late, but new members have helped push the party right. Nearly 80 percent of those who joined since 2017 support a no-deal Brexit, compared with 60 percent from before 2015, according to research by Tim Bale, a politics professor at Queen Mary University of London.
“Some of those with less strident views on the issue may have left the party only to be replaced by Brexiteer-ultras,” 
In some constituencies, a trickle of applications has become a spate. Pamela Goodman, who runs membership for the party in Kettering, north of London, said she used to be “seriously surprised” anytime a new name appeared in the sign-up system. “Now,” she said, “it’s more surprising not to get at least one almost on a daily basis.”
She said she had rejected applicants who had written in the local papers about plans to cause trouble, but otherwise tended to let people in, like a former U.K. Independence Party member who recently joined. “This chap is elderly, and UKIP has gone through the floor, so it makes sense for him to come home,” Ms. Goodman said.
A bump in membership is not unusual around the time of a leadership overhaul. But some of those new members have joined attempts to turn safe Conservative seats into minefields.
In Beaconsfield, Jon Conway, a theater producer, ran as a UKIP candidate against the local Conservative lawmaker, Dominic Grieve, in 2017. He lost, and later joined the local Conservative association, where he backed a campaign to expel Mr. Grieve. (It won a vote of no confidence against Mr. Grieve, but the effort to remove him from his seat has so far been stymied.)
“What’s happened is a political revolution,” Mr. Conway said. “Dyed-in-the-wool Conservatives would never have dreamed of turning on their own party.”
Conservative Party Headquarters did not respond to questions about entryism but defended its vetting procedures in the past.
Some new members say that joining is the only way to have any influence in Britain’s rigid electoral system.
David Lewis, 76, who lives in Canterbury, joined UKIP in 2014, when the party was led by Nigel Farage and was the main voice in favor of Britain’s leaving the European Union. But once Leave won the 2016 referendum and Mrs. May promised to carry out the result, he started looking for a new political home.
“Looking around, I thought the only people who were going to get anything done were the Conservative Party,” Mr. Lewis said.
He joined the party about a year ago, and recently voted for Mr. Johnson to become prime minister.