
LONDON — Boris Johnson, the front-runner to replace Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain, was ordered on Wednesday to appear in court for a preliminary hearing over allegations that he lied to the public during the 2016 Brexit referendum.
A judge ruled that Mr. Johnson, a former foreign secretary under Mrs. May, must appear on a private summons to address three counts of misconduct in public office over several claims, including the suggestion that Britain paid 350 million pounds, or $440 million, every week to the European Union for the country’s membership.
The £350 million figure was a central theme of the pro-Brexit campaign, which promised to invest that amount into the nation’s health service should Britain vote to leave the bloc. The slogan was emblazoned on a Brexit campaign bus: “We send the EU £350m a week: let’s fund our NHS instead,” referring to the National Health Service.
But after Britons voted to leave the bloc by 52 percent to 48 percent, many supporters of Brexit abandoned the pledge, saying it had been a “mistake.” But opponents of Brexit argued that the campaign slogan had been a gross misuse of official statistics to deliberately mislead voters.
The figure does not account for Britain’s rebate, which is deducted before it sends money to Brussels. Britain’s weekly net contribution to the European Union in April 2016 was about £190 million a week, according to the Office for National Statistics.
Mr. Johnson, one of the most prominent voices in favor of leaving the European Union, resigned as foreign secretary in 2018 in protest over Mrs. May’s Brexit plan.
His prosecution was made possible by a businessman, Marcus Ball, who raised more than £200,000 pounds to provide the financial backing to pursue the case. Mr. Ball’s lawyers said that Mr. Johnson’s conduct had been both “irresponsible and dishonest.”
No one from Mr. Johnson’s office could immediately be reached for comment on Wednesday. But he has denied wrongdoing, and his lawyers have argued that the case is a political stunt by opponents of Brexit.
The basics of Brexit, the troubled plan for Britain to quit the European Union.
It is unusual for the police to arrest a politician on the basis of statements made during a political campaign unless there is a clear breach of the law. And that appears to be the drive behind the privately funded case.
The judge’s ruling on Wednesday will carry the case only to the next stage, legal experts say, and there will be many opportunities for Mr. Johnson to try to have it dismissed.
“Just because a case gets going does not mean that an individual or company will be allowed to pursue it,” said Stephen Ross, a partner at the international law firm Withers World Wide.
“The state prosecuting authority has the ability to step in and take over conduct of the prosecution if they believe the evidence satisfies the very high tests, and it is in the public interest for them to do so.”
In a written ruling, District Judge Margot Coleman of Westminster Magistrates’ Court in London said that Mr. Johnson should be summoned to court, while noting that the accusations had not been proven and that she had not made any findings of fact.
“Having considered all the relevant factors, I am satisfied that this is a proper case to issue the summons as requested for the three offenses as drafted,” Judge Coleman said. “This means the proposed defendant will be required to attend this court for a preliminary hearing, and the case will then be sent to the Crown Court for trial.”
The judge’s ruling did not specify a date for Mr. Johnson to appear in court. The maximum punishment for the offense is life imprisonment after conviction.
Mr. Johnson, one of Britain’s most divisive politicians, is 
A victory for him could increase the chances of Britain’s leaving the European Union without a deal in October, which could potentially have 
“We will leave the E.U. on October 31, deal or no deal,” Mr. Johnson said at a conference in Switzerland last week. “The way to get a good deal is to prepare for a no deal.”