
LONDON
Brexit, it seems, has changed that. 
“I’ve changed my business model,” said Mr. Doodes, whose school has about 300 day school pupils and boarders within its medieval walls. “We now have more pupils who come to us from non-E.U. countries than before so I don’t find myself in a financial deficit.”
The unending and inelegant debate on how Britain will leave the European Union may rumble on through October, the latest 
Mr. Doodes’s numbers for the fall term are holding steady, but the summer school drop was an alert. He is monitoring calls from European parents, he said, who “seem reticent to commit for the long term,” citing concerns about visas.
The struggle is especially tough for British schools that rely on fees from workers who might leave after Brexit, said 
British schools 
Smaller private schools, with 200 to 350 students, are vulnerable, Mr. Roskilly said. They often “felt the competition and put money into new buildings,” leaving loans they have to repay, he explained. He knows potential buyers are circling some schools, he added, and expects as many as 15 will close or be sold to overseas buyers in the next year. 
Some organizations have hedged their bets by opening campuses overseas, according to the 
“There’s this uneasy feeling about Brexit,” Mr. Bell added. “There is some concern about the perception that the U.K. no longer welcomes foreigners.” 
Beate Schweighofer
She also believed that Brexit would damage the economy and squeeze funding for state schools, including one her son attended. 
“I firmly believe the economy will take a hit,” Ms. Schweighofer, 42, said. “We just had the impression that we would raise our children in a society that is at a breaking point for many of the services that are important for us.” 
So she left her job to find work in Frankfurt, where her husband, a trader at an international bank, could be transferred, 
Educators in Frankfurt and Amsterdam have also found Brexit to be a baffling complication. Private schools that anticipated enrolling the children of transferred parents are unsure of how many children to expect, how old they will be or when they will turn up. A flurry of enquiries months ago has yet to translate into applications, school representatives said. 
“There’s a lot of interest from families, consultancies, banks calling up and asking whether we have some opportunities for some spots, reserving some spots, asking how quickly we can react,” said 
But parents, he said, have yet to confirm spots. 
“I would love to tell you it’s booming, but it’s not true,” 
Family relocations that involve multiple children make planning even harder.
“If you’ve got a family moving to Amsterdam and they want a place at the school, if they’ve got more than one child, you’ve got to have space to accommodate in different year groups,” said 
Many schools are already oversubscribed. The American School of The Hague has a waiting list and has been trying to expand its facilities. The possibility of a Brexit-related boom — The Hague is near Amsterdam, where several big companies have moved offices from London — can’t really be calculated. 
“It’s tough on both sides,” said 
International teachers are usually hired in the spring, but until the schools are sure how many pupils are coming, they are reluctant to make job offers. 
King’s College, part of a coalition of schools in Spain, Panama, Latvia and Britain, opened a campus in Frankfurt last summer. It has 40 children in primary school and expects to have more than 100 by September. Eventually the school will have room for 600 children up to age 18; administrators say they will open a secondary school as enrollment rises. 
The coalition’s move into Germany predated Brexit, but Britain’s withdrawal has added impetus to the expansion. 
“The truth is that Brexit was an incentive because the odds were, and still are, that Frankfurt could be the biggest beneficiary of any exodus that takes place,” 
Schools like King's are also competing for teachers with institutions in Dubai, Singapore and China that offer more lucrative compensation packages. 
“Undoubtedly, salaries will go up,” Mr. Fry said, so it’s most likely that “margins are going to go down.” 
In Shanghai, 
“Europe has become more attractive as a place to build Dulwich Colleges than before,” said Mr. White, who has considered opening a school in Frankfurt, Paris, Amsterdam or Geneva. “I’m actually waiting to see what happens with Brexit.”
Schools are aware that not all the Brexit-related migrants will come with company packages that pay for education. Companies may use Brexit as an opportunity to reconsider such perks. 
“When companies are paying, it’s a much more stable environment,” said Dr. Lowe of the American School of The Hague. Individual parents who pay are “much more price sensitive,” 
When looking for a school in London, Ms Schweighofer had pored over school guides and paid a consultant to research local institutions, and she said she had been surprised to find there was no similar wealth of resources in Frankfurt. It took a road trip to Germany before she and her husband chose Accadis for their sons, ages 5 and 7. 
Still, Ms. Schweighofer, who speaks German, knows the process was easier for her than for other families who could be uprooted by Brexit. She has friends in Frankfurt, and “we got the move paid and we had the choice,” she said. 