
With yet another rejection of her Brexit deal looming, along with an imminent drubbing for her Conservatives in 
She moved to that address in July 2016 with but one task, to clean up a mess not of her making. Her predecessor, 
Mrs. May, a vicar’s daughter and 
Yet it is worth pausing and asking whether the sorry state of affairs over Brexit is entirely Mrs. May’s fault, or whether she was given an impossible mission. She is hardly free of blame: Mrs. May said different things at different times as 
Yet to anyone following the process from outside the caldron of British politics, the question is whether there ever was a formula that the British could have agreed on. From the outset, Brexit was based on an illusion — that Britain could abandon those aspects of the European Union it didn’t like, like free movement within the union and limitations on sovereignty, but keep the economic benefits of a trade union. 
The European Union was never prepared to allow Britain 
Maybe there was a compromise she failed to spot; maybe she was the wrong person for the job. But maybe not. Many of her sharpest critics — like Boris Johnson, for a time her foreign secretary and now the favorite to succeed her — never offered viable alternatives to the knottiest problems of leaving the union, like how to 
None of these issues will disappear with Mrs. May’s departure. The European Union has made clear that it will not reopen negotiations, and it is hard to see how someone more dogmatic than Mrs. May can bridge the yawning divide in the Parliament and among the public.
The power struggle should be in full swing when President Trump arrives for a state visit on June 3. Mrs. May will still be prime minister; she scheduled her formal departure as Conservative Party leader for June 7, so she is likely to suffer some comments from the president, who had publicly criticized the way she was handling the Brexit negotiations and 
Mrs. May offered no apology for how she tried to do it, and apportioned no blame, 