
“Do you realize that from now on, even if we are apart we will be together?” So wrote Julia Blackburn’s husband, in a fax he sent her during a long-ago period when they were newly married but living on opposite sides of the North Sea. “When I first read it,” Blackburn writes in “Time Song: Journeys in Search of a Submerged Land,” “it was a declaration of love; now it has become part of my precarious understanding of the nature of time.”
Probing that slippery concept is Blackburn’s underlying mission as she tries to see the death of her husband through the lens of lost worlds — vanished civilizations, vanished animals, vanished lands that once existed not far from where she now walks. Ghosts from the deep and deeper past are ever-present near Blackburn’s home on the southeastern coast of England, where the shorelines and estuaries, the cliffs and mud flats, yield mammoth bones, arrowheads, ancient footprints and other talismans.
Having rambled this coast for years, collecting artifacts along the way, Blackburn has become particularly fascinated by evidence of Doggerland, an inhabited land bridge between Britain and the Continent that sank into the ocean around 8,000 years ago, after the last ice age ended and sea levels rose. But while this is the “submerged land” of the subtitle, the book is less about Doggerland itself than about its absence, and about the tantalizing objects, be they fossils or faxes, that can bridge the living to the dead.
Blackburn has a talent for envisioning bygone worlds. What happened to the people of Doggerland, she wonders at one point, when the 
“Time Song” jumps between vast epochs of time as Blackburn ponders the history of the English coast and its counterpart in the Netherlands. On a wide beach at low tide near the town of Bawdsey, in Suffolk, she collects bits of fossilized wood. “In the new dawn of the Eocene when these fossils were still vivid with their own life,” she writes, “a warm sea covered much of southeast England.” She imagines the landscape covered in lush subtropical forests where tiny ancient horses and elephantlike animals called 
Unfortunately, many of the glimpses the reader gets are in the form of strange, somewhat awkward prose poems Blackburn calls “time songs.” There are 18 of them, and they contain some of the book’s most interesting facts and ideas. “I would say to you who does not listen,” she writes to her husband in one such poem, on the anniversary of his death, “That time is both longer and shorter / Than I ever imagined.” But the format is distracting.
The book also bogs down in descriptions of the eccentric collectors Blackburn meets, whose homes and garages overflow with the bones of extinct rhinos and the teeth of bygone shrews. These scenes drag on, with no real forward momentum.
Those who came before us are perhaps never completely gone, and in that Blackburn finds solace. Pondering the “density of life” that once existed in Doggerland, she writes, “We learn to grow accustomed to the absences, because it seems we have no choice.” They live on through what they leave behind — or, sometimes, through an absence so strong it’s almost tangible.