
LONDON — After months of tortured debate over Britain’s departure from the European Union, a new word has entered the jargon-strewn Brexit lexicon: “flextension.” It could hold the key to the next phase.
Flextension is how insiders are describing the type of delay to Brexit that Prime Minister Theresa May now seems likely to seek from the bloc: a long extension that could be cut short if Parliament finally approves an exit deal.
If it sounds dubious, it is nevertheless considered an improvement on an earlier term for the process, “terminability.”
Whatever it is called, analysts are far from sure that Mrs. May will succeed in selling the idea when she meets European Union leaders at a summit in Brussels next Wednesday. And any one of them could veto any extension, leaving Britain facing a 
On Tuesday, Mrs. May sought to break months of deadlock when she reached out to her adversary, Jeremy Corbyn, leader of the opposition Labour Party, to try to reach agreement. They met on Wednesday and teams from both sides continued the discussions on Thursday. The session ended with no breakthroughs or breakdowns.
The basics of Brexit, the troubled plan for Britain to quit the European Union.
But with the talks currently grinding on slowly between Britain’s two, fractured, main political parties, there is probably not enough time from a practical standpoint to finalize a deal in time — even if the parties could agree on one in the next few days.
So Mrs. May is now having to contemplate asking for a long Brexit delay, anywhere from nine months to possibly two years. That would mean that Britain takes part in elections to the European Parliament next month, something that Mrs. May insisted she had wanted to avoid. But her government is protectively preparing the paperwork for that vote to go ahead.
That is where flextension comes in. If she could get the bloc to agree to an extension that could be shortened, it would calm the fears of some in her Conservative Party who think Brexit might never happen if there is a long extension.
But time is short and common ground between the government and the opposition is limited. There are hints that Mrs. May could accept a customs union with Europe that could protect manufacturing companies by ensuring there are no tariffs on imports and exports to continental Europe.
But there is little sign that she will accept a Labour proposal to remain close to the bloc’s single market. That would remove many more barriers in goods and services but would almost certainly involve accepting free movement of people, perhaps the one thing that Mrs. May has vowed to stop as part of Brexit.
“I can’t quite see how they make an agreement. I can see Labour moving to single market membership but I can’t see May moving even halfway there,” said Simon Tilford, a Europe expert at Chatham House, a research institute in London.
The alternative to striking a joint deal is to try to persuade Labour to commit to honoring the outcome of a series of votes on different Brexit options in Parliament. But Mr. Corbyn is expected to resist that suggestion.
“The risk is that we get a pretty hard Brexit out of that and Labour is portrayed as having facilitated it,” said Mr. Tilford, something that would appall many of the party’s supporters.
Even if some cross-party agreement can be reached, it looks unlikely to be approved by Parliament before Britain’s immediate fate is decided at a meeting in Brussels next Wednesday.
Mrs. May’s allies are now talking less about achieving a final agreement by then, and more about being able to show European leaders next week that at least a process is underway to resolve the impasse.
Mrs. May’s Brexit deal has been rejected three times by British lawmakers, and there is likely to be a lively debate in Brussels on whether — or more particularly — on what terms to grant a second extension.
Britain was supposed to leave on March 29 and has already had one postponement. Last month European Union leaders indicated that they would only be open to a second postponement if it were a longer Brexit delay and if Britain takes part in the elections to the European Parliament.
But several leaders are growing impatient with Britain, and might want to consider another short extension that would force the British Parliament to choose next month between approving Mrs. May’s unpopular exit plan, agreeing on something similar or leaving without any agreement.
The desire to avoid a potentially disastrous no-deal exit is one of the few things shared by a majority in Parliament, and on Thursday the House of Lords debated a law that would oblige Mrs. May to request a delay to Brexit.
The highly unusual legislation was passed by the House of Commons late on Wednesday by a single vote amid protests from those who see it as a power grab by lawmakers.
With Mrs. May now facing further delay, she is expected to raise the possibility of flextension with Europe’s leaders.
Mr. Tilford expressed doubt that European Union leaders would agree to the idea. “I think those that are arguing for a long extension are doing it because they think Britain needs a long time to come to terms with itself,” he said.
“Their idea is not to help May push through a deal that doesn’t have the support of Parliament or of the country as a whole.”