
PARIS — For Adam Kirkwood, a weekend getaway in Paris that included museum visits and strolls along the Seine had gone pretty smoothly.
Until it was time to go back to London.
On Monday, he experienced a flavor of France’s protest culture combined with 
“I am not sure that we, in Britain, are as worried as the French customs officers about Brexit,” Mr. Kirkwood, 68, said. “Maybe we should stop drinking tea and start thinking about what comes next.”
As Britain prepares for another crucial vote on Tuesday about the withdrawal, customs workers on the other side of the English Channel have been showing what might happen. Without extra funding and staffing ahead of the March 29 deadline, they say, the ports, train stations and tunnel linking Britain and France will face mayhem.
The slowdown by the customs officers has gone on for a week, with dozens of trucks backed up for miles outside the channel tunnel’s entrance in northern France and near the French ports of Calais and Dunkirk. And hundreds of passengers like Mr. Kirkwood have been stranded in Paris, waiting to board delayed or canceled Eurostar trains.
The French government says it is ready for Brexit. It has announced that 700 additional customs officers will be hired by 2020, with about 260 of them stationed in northern France and starting before March 29. In addition, 10 agents will be added to the 120 already at the Gare du Nord.
But unions say that is not enough, even though they acknowledge that the current slowdown has as much to do with longstanding grievances about working conditions as it does about Brexit.
Vincent Thomazo, a union representative, said that more resources were needed in places like Calais and at the Gare du Nord. “Brexit is going to make it worse,” he added.
“We are setting up a new border, but it’s going to be impossible to control this new border with the resources we have now,” he said.
Under 
But if lawmakers in London 
As part of the protest, customs agents have been taking extra time to check drivers’ identification and trucks at channel ports. At the Gare du Nord, where Eurostar passengers already go through passport and luggage checks, officers have been purposely using fewer X-ray machines to make the process longer, claiming that will mimic the length of time needed after Brexit. They have also been asking travelers more questions than usual about things like their home address, their job and the contents of their luggage.
Customs officials in France also slowed work at the train station in Lille, at airports in Marseille and Lyon and at the two major airports serving Paris, Charles de Gaulle and Orly.
At the Gare du Nord, many British passengers, blocked in lines down the escalators leading to the Eurostar area, said they expected things to get worse after Brexit.
“We’ve got what we voted for, we’ve only got to blame ourselves,” said Jacqueline Ferguson, 61, adding that she was dreading the possibility of missing the last connection from London to Yorkshire, where she lives.
Some travelers supported the customs workers.
“It’s important that we, those who can afford a Eurostar ticket, realize that those who are going to bear the brunt of Brexit are the civil servants, the little people,” said Clément Petit, a 42-year-old cello player on his way to London for a concert.
Others were less understanding.
“Once again, French civil servants are making things worse,” said Laurent Damour, en route to London for a few days of vacation. Mr. Damour said that customs officers were using Brexit as an excuse and creating dysfunction on top of existing problems. “We already know that Brexit is going to be a mess, thanks for reminding us,” he said.
With so much uncertainty surrounding the nature of Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union, there has been particular scrutiny in France on the readiness of entry and exit points.
A top official in northern France, Michel Lalande, 
As the deadline looms, however, the French government says that — barring some minor hiccups — the transition will be frictionless.
“Customs agents are crying out before any actual pain,” said Rodolphe Gintz, the director general of the French customs service. “Brexit isn’t here yet, and when it comes, we will be ready, because we have been preparing for this for almost two years.”
Little will change for private passengers, Mr. Gintz said, because Britain is not part of 
The passage of goods could face more changes, though. If there is no deal, companies might have to declare their merchandise before the crossing to Britain, which would almost certainly 
More than four million trucks cross the channel every year through the tunnel or via the Calais and Dunkirk ports, and a quarter of all goods that go between Britain and continental Europe transit through the tunnel.
The efforts to prepare are already visible.
Parking lots and extra offices have been built near the port and tunnel entrance in Calais. Areas for checks on animals crossing the border have also been created.
Jean-Marc Puissesseau, the chief executive of Calais port, said that 6 million euros, or about $6.7 million, had been spent to get ready for a no-deal scenario.
“If there is an agreement and all our efforts prove to be pointless,” he said, “it’ll be the first time I’m happy to have spent so much money for nothing.”