
Hoarse from the effort of trying to sell a 
The defeat was largely foreordained, as Mrs. May had failed to secure significant new concessions from the union since the deal she had negotiated over two years of arduous negotiations was initially rejected by a staggering margin of 230 
While the vote on Tuesday sharply limited the options available to the British, it was not the end of the matter. The choices facing Parliament were “unenviable,” as Mrs. May said with what was left of her voice, but coming days promised more “squeaky bum time,” a phrase several British reporters borrowed from a soccer coach who once used it to describe the way fans squirm in their seats when the action gets tense.
“Let me be clear that voting against leaving without a deal and for an extension does not solve the problems we face,” Mrs. May said. “The E.U. will want to know what use we mean to make of such an extension, and the House will have to answer that question.”
Scotland’s first minister, Nicola Sturgeon, seethed. “Tonight’s outcome was entirely predictable, and if they had been prepared to listen at any stage and engage constructively instead of simply pandering to Brexit extremists, they could have avoided it,” Ms. Sturgeon said in a written 
As anticipated in the event that the deal was turned down, 
Since the British voted in a referendum in June 2016 to leave the bloc, all the endless arguments, dire warnings and mountains of data the issue generated seem only to have dug each side more firmly into its trench. To some hard-core pro-Brexit M.P.s, any exit, with or without a deal, and no matter what the consequences, is better than staying tied to “the Continent.” On the other end of the political spectrum, there are those who believe that defeating any Brexit deal keeps alive the hope of another referendum in which the “stay” side would prevail, or simply withdrawing the notice of withdrawal. And all the while Jeremy Corbyn, the leader of the opposition Labour Party, has been waiting for a chance to bring Mrs. May down and force new elections.
Often lost in the cacophony of the intra-British debate is that the other 27 members of the union also have a major voice in disentangling an enormously complex relationship, and are not prepared to let the British pick and choose from the agreement they reached with Mrs. May. “On the E.U. side, we have done all that is possible to reach an agreement,” said a spokesman for the European Council president, Donald Tusk. “It is difficult to see what more we can do.” That was a point Mrs. May also tried, repeatedly and unsuccessfully, to drive home, that the deal she put to Parliament was “the best, and indeed only deal available.”
But if that deal can’t get through Parliament, and when neither side seems ready to go off the cliff with no deal, the only remaining option is to move back the deadline and keep trying, even if that makes for a lot more squeaky bum time.