
LONDON — Over the last few years, as Britain has divided into warring tribes over its exit from the European Union, Queen Elizabeth II has retained a sphinxlike neutrality, imperturbably getting on with the business of conveying knighthoods and hosting garden parties.
But this week even the queen was drawn into Britain’s constitutional turmoil, after a prominent lawmaker suggested she employ a royal prerogative that has not been used for centuries: the right to tactically adjourn, or “prorogue,” a rebellious Parliament.
The 92-year-old queen then made a veiled reference to Brexit in a speech on Thursday, delivering a plea for “respecting different points of view” and “coming together to seek out the common ground.” In line with her constitutional obligation to remain neutral on political matters, she revealed nothing about her views on Prime Minister Theresa May’s withdrawal agreement or, say, the northern Irish backstop.
“As we look for new answers in the modern age, I for one prefer the tried and tested recipes, like speaking well of each other and respecting different points of view; coming together to seek out the common ground; and never losing sight of the bigger picture,” the queen said.
“To me, these approaches are timeless, and I commend them to everyone.”
Commentators spent much of Friday morning deconstructing these words for signs that the queen was recommending a particular course of action, with many concluding that she was throwing her weight behind Mrs. May’s deal.
From the queen’s words it was hard to tell. But one thing was clear: She is worried enough to get involved.
“What’s definitely true is that she is concerned about the rancor and division at the moment, and she is making a plea for peace to break out,” said Valentine Low, who covers the royal family for The Times of London.
With less than nine weeks left before the deadline for Britain to leave the bloc, factions in Parliament are still pushing for maximalist goals, like remaining in the bloc or leaving without any agreement.
Some complained that she had overstepped her constitutional powers. “I don’t think Her Majesty should be wading in,” wrote Sean O’Grady, an editor of The Independent, who supports a second referendum. “It would have been much better to stay silent and allow the politicians and people — through a Final Say referendum — to resolve things.”
Ascertaining the queen’s views on Brexit has been a parlor game for several years. Observers seized on a hat she wore last year — deep blue, with yellow flowers — as 
But The Sun, a powerful tabloid, claimed in a headline that “Queen Backs Brexit,” relating comments critical of the European Union that she allegedly made in an exchange with a lawmaker. The lawmaker said the story was inaccurate, and The Sun was later 
Journalists on Friday braced for another round of frantic interpretation. “If anyone else came out with these sort of cliché-ridden, impossible-to-disagree-with, back-of-a-greetings card platitude, they would be ignored,” 
The basics of Brexit, the troubled plan for Britain to quit the European Union.
The queen was criticized in 2014 for telling a well-wisher on the eve of a referendum on Scottish independence that “I hope people will think very carefully about the future.” The remark was seen as aiding the unionist side. A biography of David Cameron, then prime minister, that was published the following year 
She is also being urged, by a few, to be more involved. Jacob Rees-Mogg, a hard-line Brexiteer sometimes referred to as “the honorable member for the 18th century,” suggested on Wednesday that the queen might have a role in resolving the country’s constitutional dilemma.
Next week will be another stress test for Britain’s constitution, as Parliament votes on lawmakers’ amendments challenging Mrs. May’s road map for exiting the European Union. Speaker John Bercow’s 
But, Mr. Rees-Mogg noted, the executive does have a secret weapon at its disposal: the monarch, who in centuries past reserved the power to adjourn Parliament and shelve pending legislation at will.
“I hope it will not be necessary for Her Majesty’s stay at Sandringham to be interrupted for her in person to prorogue Parliament,” he said. “We do not want that sort of constitutional crisis.”
A Brexiteer cabinet minister also suggested to The Telegraph that the queen could shut down rebel lawmakers by 
This notion was met with incredulity in some quarters. Chris Bryant, a Labour lawmaker, called it a “preposterous Tudor- or Stuart-era idea,” and remarked, “it’ll be sending people to the Tower, hanging, drawing and quartering them next.” The ceremony surrounding the act of prorogation — now used exclusively in routine matters, when a parliamentary session has come to an end — is so ancient that it is carried out in Norman French, the language of government in the 16th century.
But a legal scholar said Mr. Rees-Mogg’s suggestion — “delving deep into constitutional vaults to activate the queen” — indicated the seriousness of Britain’s constitutional dilemma, as a weak government tries to push through an unpopular deal under extreme time pressure.
“The way our system is supposed to work, you’ve already failed if the queen is forced to make any sort of decision,” said Jack Simson Caird, a senior research fellow at the Bingham Center for the Rule of Law. The power to adjourn Parliament, he said, is a historical vestige, one of many that remain in Britain’s constitutional system, which relies heavily on precedent and custom.
“You don’t make Parliament go away,” he said. “That’s contrary to democratic values. You have to go back to a pre-democratic age to find examples of it.”
Another expert contended that, by allowing backbench lawmakers to vote on Mrs. May’s strategy, Mr. Bercow had already brought Britain into a “gray area” in the country’s mostly unwritten constitution.
“One of the problems of Brexit is that people are testing the limits of the rules,” said Stephen Laws, who formerly drafted legislation for Parliament, and is now a senior fellow at 
He 
“There is always the likelihood that people will question whatever she does,” he said. “It is the responsibility of politicians to arrange their affairs so that there is never a need to involve herself in a controversy.”