
LONDON — During the Vietnam War the American ambassador in Saigon, Frederick Nolting Jr., indignant at negative coverage, demanded of the French journalist François Sully, “Why, Monsieur Sully, do you always see the hole in the doughnut?”
“Because, Monsieur l’Ambassadeur,” Sully replied, “there 
Speaking of doughnuts, 
So much for the leadership of the free world!
One of the great satisfactions of my life was watching Britain take its place in Europe, prejudice fall away, gastronomy and England find an unlikely accommodation and tolerance spread — until in 2016, Britain, in a radical act of self-harm, hurled itself over a 
Now, if he gets his way, Johnson is going to be in our faces, like his buddy President Trump. The Tories have become a one-issue party — Brexit — just as the Republicans have become a one-man party — Trump. Each in folding has shown all the spine of a jellyfish.
Johnson, if picked by Tories, will serve up his take on Trump’s “phenomenal” and “amazing” (with possible Oxbridge additions). He will be bent on getting Britain out of the European Union by the latest deadline, Oct. 31 — and to heck with the consequences.
This is ominous. The most dangerous attitude toward truth is contempt for its importance. The most dangerous use of language is one that strips it of meaning. The most dangerous approach to the past is the attempt to mythologize it. Trump and Johnson don’t care.
Even a stopped clock is right twice a day — or as they say in Alabama and elsewhere, even a blind pig finds an acorn now and then. The Atlantic Alliance of Trump and Johnson is like that these days. It stumbles along, not without occasional use, but stripped of its core.
When it comes to the West as a moral rather than a mere geographical expression, the 
How did this happen? How did two nations of laws dedicated to individual liberty come around to the semiotics of Trump: It’s O.K. to stiff people; it’s O.K. to lie; it’s O.K. to wink at racism?
The answer lies in the Six I’s: Inequality, impunity, invisibility, immigration, inversion and the internet.
Inequality
Impunity
Invisibility
Immigration
Inversion of the values of what had been white-male-dominated 
The internet that, through social media, destroyed traditional mediators of society, like established political parties, and empowered politics of the mob. What counts today is not persuasion but mobilization.
Here was the grist for Trump’s populism — and that of his acolytes across the West. Here were the sources of anger and fear that could be exploited. Here’s “the American carnage” he could leverage. Here’s why, in the name of America First nationalism, he went about trashing the multilateral postwar order America had forged. Here’s why he tweets not only of a second term but of staying in power beyond that if the masses demand it. Trump’s inner despot is like Dr. Strangelove’s arm: He can’t keep it down.
Like Johnson, Trump is not an “aberration,” as 