
What TRUMP Said
“We are your largest partner. You’re our largest partner.”
When it comes to international trade, the United States’ top partners 
While his comments about trade at a round table were inaccurate, President Trump correctly stated — during a joint news conference with Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain — that “the United Kingdom is America’s largest foreign investor.” The United States is the 
What TRUMP Said
“Crime is up. A lot of problems.”
Asked about his 
Since Mr. Khan took office in May 2016, overall crime has increased in London, but it is worth noting that crime began to tick up in 2014, 
Robberies have increased significantly in London from 2016 to 2019, and knife crimes are also a concern, but “all violence seems pretty stable,” said Brian Francis, a statistician who specializes in criminology at Lancaster University. For a comparison, Mr. Francis noted that violent crime in Manchester, England, 
The Crime Survey for England and Wales, a metric of crime used by the Office for National Statistics, shows that violent crime has not changed significantly relative to the start of Mr. Khan’s term. 
The 
What TRUMP Said
“I said, ‘Where are the protests? I don’t see any protests.’ I did see a small protest today when I came — very small. So a lot of it is fake news.”
Mr. Trump’s calling protests in London “fake news” contradicts 
Attendance was lower than the protests during Mr. Trump’s visit to Britain last July, 
What Trump Said
“I really predicted what was going to happen. Some of you remember that prediction. It was a strong prediction, made at a certain location on a development we were opening the day before it happened.”
 While Mr. Trump did make statements about Brexit before the referendum, the one he was referring to occurred afterward. He said, “I think that Britain will separate from the E.U.” But that comment 
When Mr. Trump visited his Turnberry golf resort in Scotland 
Mr. Trump also made this claim at 
What Trump Said
“I have a 90 percent — 94 percent approval rating as of this morning in the Republican Party. That’s an all-time record. Can you believe that?”
Mr. Trump had a 
Mr. Trump’s 90 percent approval among his party is the highest in his presidency. That’s lower than the Republican peak approval for five of the past six Republican presidents: 99 percent for George W. Bush, 97 percent for George Bush, 93 percent for President Ronald Reagan, 91 percent for President Richard M. Nixon and 95 percent for Mr. Eisenhower.