
LONDON — The prospect of Britain suffering an abrupt and potentially chaotic departure from the European Union next month receded on Tuesday when Prime Minister Theresa May agreed that Parliament should have the option to seek a delay in Britain’s exit plans.
Mrs. May’s concession, in the face of a rebellion by high-ranking, pro-European members of her own party, was the latest in a long line of retreats as she has struggled to cajole the fractious Tories into supporting a revised version of the deal on withdrawal, or Brexit, that lawmakers threw out by a huge margin last month.
While her move lessens significantly the risk of a potentially disastrous “no deal” Brexit by the March 29 deadline, an extension of the negotiating period will merely delay that danger by a couple of months, not end it.
Nonetheless, Mrs. May’s announcement reassured currency markets, which pushed the pound higher. And it appeared to defuse the growing revolt in a Conservative Party, which is becoming increasingly jittery about the economic dangers of departing the bloc without any agreement.
Her intervention came a day after the opposition leader, Jeremy Corbyn, gave way to critics within his own Labour Party and promised to call for a second referendum on Brexit if Mrs. May did not support Labour’s alternative proposals, which she has already rejected.
Mrs. May’s reversal was striking because she had insisted dozens of times in Parliament that Britain would definitely leave the European Union on schedule on March 29, though preferably with a deal. But her hand was forced by the Tory rebels, who had threatened to support an immediate vote on Wednesday for the powers to demand an extension of the Brexit talks, thereby taking control of the process from Mrs. May.
In effect, Mrs. May granted them their wish to vote on an extension, but retained control of the agenda and gained two weeks’ time, until March 12, when she will bring her revised deal back to Parliament.
If lawmakers then reject her deal, she says, they should have the opportunity in the next two days to vote on whether to delay Brexit for a short and limited time or to opt for a “no deal” departure — something that a large majority in Parliament opposes.
Mrs. May said that Britain would “only leave without a deal on March 29 if there is explicit consent in this House for that outcome.” She added, however, that she did not favor an extension of the deadline and completely ruled out revoking Britain’s exit.
The basics of Brexit, the troubled plan for Britain to quit the European Union.
While the maneuvering on Tuesday enabled Mrs. May to avoid a probable defeat in Parliament on Wednesday, what it means for the future of Brexit is less clear. A postponement of the Brexit date would require the consent of all 27 other European Union governments, and they are not likely to grant any extensive delay without a sound reason.
So unless Britain plans to hold a general election or another referendum, the delay is not likely to extend beyond early July, when a newly elected European Parliament is scheduled to meet.
In that sense, Mrs. May’s concession is probably less substantial than it seemed at first sight. Kenneth Clarke, a former Conservative chancellor of the Exchequer, warned that Mrs. May’s new guarantee amounted to no more than “giving us a date for a new cliff edge at the end of June.”
That thought may have occurred to some pro-Brexit hard-liners as well, whose reaction to Mrs. May’s shift was remarkably mild.
Since her Brexit plan was rejected last month by one of the greatest margins in British history, Mrs. May has put off one vote after another, pleading for time to renegotiate the deal to make it more acceptable. But critics accuse her of running down the clock in the hope that Parliament will vote for her unpopular deal as the only way to avoid the worse fate of a cliff-edge departure.
On Tuesday, Mr. Corbyn echoed that line, accusing Mrs. May of “stringing people along,” although critics say he has employed the same tactics in his glacial shift toward a second referendum on Brexit that many in his party favor. He has delayed long enough that most analysts say there is now little chance that Parliament will support the measure.
For Mrs. May, her concession on Tuesday was unusual to the extent that it followed a rebellion not by the perennially troublesome right-wing pro-Brexit faction in her party, but by the more pragmatic pro-Europeans. Last week, three Conservative lawmakers quit the party to join a group of eight rebels from Labour, sitting together as an independent group.
But further Conservatives, including ministers, are appalled at the damage being inflicted on the economy by the uncertainty caused by Brexit and are determined to stop an ill-prepared business sector plunging over the cliff edge next month.
They had been agonizing over what to do on Wednesday when Parliament had been expected to vote on an amendment crafted by a Labour lawmaker, Yvette Cooper, and a Conservative veteran, Oliver Letwin. It aimed to prevent Britain from lurching into a possibly chaotic exit without an agreement.
If it had succeeded, Mrs. May would have had until March 13 to get a Brexit deal approved. But failing that, Parliament could force her to request an extension in the withdrawal talks under Article 50 of the European Union treaty. It would have been a rare example of Parliament exerting its power by wrenching control of the Brexit process from the government.
But on Tuesday Mr. Letwin welcomed Mrs. May’s announcement and wrote on Twitter that there was now “no need” for his proposed bill.