
The crazy, agonized, hair-tearing saga of Brexit began nearly three years ago, when David Cameron, the prime minister at the time, called for a referendum on Britain’s membership in the European Union. Shock waves rippled around the world in June 2016 after Britons defied pollsters and voted to leave the bloc.
Since then, Britain and the world have been treated to a seemingly endless list of ideas and terminologies — backstops, hard Brexit, soft Brexit, blind Brexit, Canada-plus-plus, Norway-plus-plus, the Chequers plan, vassal state.
But as anyone who has paid even remote attention knows, until now, at least, nothing has been decided. The only certainty, it seems, is that there is always a majority against any possible solutions, and never a majority in favor of them. Another way to put it is that Britain has become even more rived by divisions over Europe than it was before the referendum that was meant to end them once and for all.
To help aficionados of the process, or even those with a passing interest, The New York Times has collected a pictorial history of Britain’s journey, as captured by Times photographers. 
Below, a rally in London in December pushing for a complete break from the European Union. 
A discussion on the approaching referendum in Glenrothes, Scotland, in 2016. The push to leave the European Union 
Watching the referendum results in London. About 60 percent of voters in the city wanted Britain to remain in the European Union — 
Harvesting vegetables near Boston, England. Many farm workers there are from Eastern Europe, in Britain legally under regulations that allow citizens of European Union nations to live and work in any member country. Rising 
Celebrating the queen’s birthday in Castle Point, Essex, a part of England where people are fiercely English, fiercely Conservative and fiercely pro-Brexit. The English are considerably less willing than their fellow Britons in Scotland and Northern Ireland to see themselves as a subset of Europe, and 
An amusement pier in Blackpool, England. 
The boundary between the Republic of Ireland from Northern Ireland runs along the top of Cuilcagh Mountain. The frontier has become 
The National Health Service, with its mandate to offer free universal health care, is a pillar of postwar British identity, and the prospect of additional funding was used as a rallying cry by anti-Europe campaigners. 
But many of its employees are from the European Union. 
For many in Britain, 
The Brexit debate exposed the deep resentment of working-class Britons outside London toward the elites in the wealthy, cosmopolitan capital, but the charred remains of the high-rise apartment block, below, became 
Few major Western cities have been more open to Muslims than London, but the Brexit vote and a series of terrorist attacks have 
A German container ship making its way toward a British port in December. Many companies are reassessing their long-term investments in Britain, 
A view of the financial district from the Shard, one of the skyscrapers that define the London skyline. Nearly one-fifth of the world’s banking transactions go through Britain, with most moving through London — but 
Commuters at Canary Wharf station, in the heart of London’s global banking center. Many banks are already configuring plans to 
Bartenders at 
London spent billions of dollars on a high-capacity train line to move more people through a growing city and link low-income outlying areas like Thamesmead, pictured, to central London. 
The project, 
Britain faces many problems other than its pending exit from the European Union: regional divisions, economic disparities, unemployment and terrorism. 
After a decade without Islamist terrorist attacks, 
Britain is learning to cope with more attacks in the most ordinary of places. People gathered in Manchester, England, in May 2017 after 
The town of Grimsby, England, was once home to one of the largest fleet of trawlers in Britain. Now it’s a global hub for the fish processing industry, with fish from all over the world being gutted, packaged and sold to wholesalers. 
But 
For a few weeks in July, the national fixation turned to sports, when 
One newspaper urged the Conservative Party to lay down the cudgels for one day. “Don’t You Know There’s a Game On?” asked its front page.
Although the British government has sought to reassure European immigrants that they will not have to leave immediately, no one really knows what residency status they will have once Britain leaves the bloc. 
Below, a Polish Mass at a Roman Catholic church in Boston, England. The community feels “uncertainty, a little fear about the situation,” the Rev. Stanislaw Kowalski said.
Below, a portrait of former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, who once championed the common European market but toward the end of her career became a euroskeptic, in storage in Romford, England. 
The 
Below, a fund-raising party in Craignure, Scotland. 
In Scotland, 62 percent of voters supported remaining in the European Union — making Scotland more pro-Europe than even London. The result crystallized a long-held feeling among Scots that a right-wing Conservative government in London did not represent them — and 
A harbor worker in Brixham, England’s largest commercial fishing port. Many there want Britain to regain control of the waters within 200 miles of shore
Whether their grievances involve fish, immigrants or meddlesome rules, 