
Good morning. 
President Trump issued the ban, reversing an earlier decision by American aviation regulators to keep the planes in service. His announcement came despite 
After soundly rejecting Prime Minister Theresa May’s withdrawal plans twice, British lawmakers voted against leaving the E.U. without a deal. 
If Parliament votes for an extension, Mrs. May will have to seek permission to delay Brexit from E.U. leaders next week.
Some lawmakers want to take nonbinding votes on alternatives to Mrs. May’s failed plan. There is talk of a second referendum to confirm public support for Brexit and 
The flurry of votes and ideas underscore Parliament’s attempts to wrest control of the Brexit process, just 16 days before the March 29 deadline.
At China’s annual legislative meeting, regional officials, businesspeople and others seemed to be focused on one looming issue: 
Many suggested ideas to address the problem, caused by falling birthrates, including lowering the legal age of marriage, banning discrimination of mothers-to-be in the workplace, and even removing all limits on how many children a couple can have.
It’s unlikely that the government will heed this advice immediately, but the discussion and growing concern might hint at changes to come later.
Rescuers scrambled to pull children out from under the wreckage of a three-story building that fell in on itself in the Nigerian city of Lagos. The building housed apartments as well as a nursery and a primary school. Hundreds of people had gathered at the site awaiting news of their children.
Officials said 
Onlookers and neighbors pointed out that the building had been marked with an “X” for demolition but was refurbished not long ago. The state governor said the school had been operating illegally in the building.
The Times recently published a story about 
One of the first on record is the London Bow Street Horse Patrol, established in the mid-18th century 
These days, mounted officers are usually used for crowd control and easy navigation through traffic (mobility and sightlines from horseback are better than on foot or in a car). And, 
In comparison to foot patrols, the report said, “Mounted police were observed to generate over six times as many instances of casual public engagements — such as greetings and brief exchanges — over equivalent time periods in neighborhood patrols.”