
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning. 
President Trump 
On multiple occasions last year, the president said that he wanted to withdraw the U.S. from the 69-year-old North Atlantic Treaty Organization, senior administration officials told our reporters, 
Such desires underline concerns about Mr. Trump’s secretive relationship with Russia and its president, Vladimir Putin. Withdrawing the U.S. from NATO would be a grand victory for Mr. Putin and effectively destroy a 29-country alliance that undergirds the E.U.’s security and the world order, and senior administration officials were at first unsure if Mr. Trump was serious. He was, and so his national security team scrambled to run interference and keep the U.S. in. 
Mr. Trump’s belief that NATO is a money-loser appears to be fundamental to his worldview, along with an often-stated desire to seize Iraq’s oil, officials said. 
The British Parliament is gearing up for a critical vote on Prime Minister Theresa May’s Brexit plan — and defeat is so widely expected that Mrs. May has been fighting not to avert a loss but to 
In that vein, the prime minister enlisted fresh assurances from Europe’s most senior officials and warned again of the dangers of a chaotic “no deal” withdrawal from the E.U. She also tried to cajole hard-line Brexiteers to support her, even if they hate her plan.
The vote could go down as a historically awful defeat — a margin of more than 100 votes would constitute a big loss. Her leadership hangs in the balance.
Asked to work without pay during a partial government shutdown, one of every 13 airport screeners in the U.S. is now failing to show up, and the country’s airports are beginning to groan. International hubs in Houston and Atlanta 
Though Russia decriminalized homosexuality during the breakup of the Soviet Union, the police in the region of Chechnya have periodically detained gay people in extrajudicial arrests, and a new report 
Today is the 10th anniversary of a miracle.
On Jan. 15, 2009, Capt. Chesley Sullenberger 
But the so-called Miracle on the Hudson hardly stands alone.
In 1982, a 
A 
And a DHL crew survived a missile strike.
Soon after taking off on a cargo flight from Baghdad to Bahrain on Nov. 22, 2003, their Airbus A300 was hit by a surface-to-air missile launched by Iraqi insurgents. The 
Using only the engines to control the plane’s direction and altitude, the crew headed back to the airport and 
Where’s their 