
Good morning. 
A day after a summary of the two-year Mueller investigation reported that there was no conspiracy with Russia, the president 
He suggested that they were guilty of “evil things” and should be investigated themselves.
“Grim faced and simmering with anger,” our White House correspondent wrote, “Mr. Trump repeated his assertion that a collection of partisan foes had effectively conspired to try to disrupt or even end his presidency with false allegations about his campaign’s ties with Moscow in 2016.”
Lawmakers 
The move wrested control of the process from Mrs. May — an unprecedented departure from British political traditions, in which government normally controls the agenda.
Wang Yi, a civil rights lawyer who founded a 500-member independent church in the southwestern city of Chengdu, has been detained, along with his wife, since December without access to a lawyer.
The two have been 
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said he was cutting short a trip to the U.S., after 
The Israeli military said that Hamas, the militant group that controls the Gaza Strip, launched the rocket and that Israel would make retaliatory strikes. More Israeli forces were sent to bolster deployments around Gaza, and reservists were called up, suggesting preparations for an escalating conflict.
Hamas and Israel have been avoiding open conflict since 2014, when 50 days of bloody fighting left 
Mr. Netanyahu canceled his plans to address a policy conference organized by the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, known as Aipac, on Tuesday, but his chief rival in the elections, Bennie Gantz, addressed the conference Monday.
Today is the 40th anniversary of 
The landmark accords were 
The retreat captured the affection of 
President Trump goes to his clubs in Palm Beach, Fla. or Bedminster, N.J., rather than Camp David. “It’s nice. You’d like it,” Mr. Trump 
Still, the Navy maintains Camp David as an active military base, ready for a president who will once again routinely make the 30-minute helicopter ride from the White House.