
Good morning.
Congress finds out what’s in the 
Attorney General William Barr 
This much is clear: The Mueller report established no conspiracy between the Trump campaign and Russia, but left it to Mr. Barr to determine whether President Trump's actions constituted obstruction of justice. Mr. Barr found that they did not.
Our Washington Bureau is assessing 
Hundreds of thousands of protesters 
Few lawmakers have any appetite for a second public vote, however, so the march’s main impact may be as a reflection of growing popular frustration over the gridlock.
On the table is Prime Minister Theresa May’s widely unpopular draft plan. If lawmakers approve it by the E.U. deadline, Britain will leave the bloc on May 22.
If not, Britain has three choices: a no-deal Brexit on April 12, no Brexit at all or a longer delay of 
A military-linked party seemed to have emerged as the winner of parliamentary elections, the country’s first vote since a coup in 2014.
With about 90 percent of the ballots counted as of Sunday, 
The remaining votes will be counted today, but it appears to be the first electoral failure since 2001 of a party aligned with Thaksin Shinawatra, the polarizing former prime minister.
Democracy 
The voting was for the lower house. The new Constitution gives the military the power to appoint all 250 members of the Senate, so its power in Parliament will be overwhelming.
A four-year military operation to push the terrorist group from Iraq and Syria ended on Saturday when 
The end of the Islamic State’s self-declared caliphate, which at its peak was the size of Britain, is a major blow to the group. The group continues to exist, however, as a diffuse insurgency from Afghanistan to the Philippines, and experts say it is 
The letters 
There was 
The K once ran along the C line in Manhattan, but the letter was retired in 1988.
Once a letter disappears from the map, that doesn’t mean it is gone forever. The W train, between Queens and Manhattan, was axed in 2010 and then reappeared in 2016 as part of new service after the opening of the Second Avenue subway, which diverted the Q train to three new stations on Manhattan’s Upper East Side.