
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering 
Parliament is expected to vote again today on Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s withdrawal agreement and — surprise — it 
The vote was initially planned for Monday, but John Bercow, Speaker of the House of Commons and perennial thorn in Mr. Johnson’s side, blocked the vote because Parliament rules forbid the reintroduction of the same bill multiple times. 
Rejecting Mr. Johnson’s timetable would enable his opponents to introduce amendments to his plan — such as a referendum or keeping Britain in the E.U. customs union — that could effectively kill it. 
In the weeks before Turkey’s incursion into Kurdish-controlled areas in northern Syria, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan voiced his larger ambition: 
The country already has the makings of a bomb program — uranium deposits, research reactors and a long-delayed power reactor now under construction — though experts said it would take years to produce a weapon. 
But its efforts could provoke a new crisis: Turkey would be the first NATO member to break out of the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty. 
The company said Monday that it had removed 
The accounts targeted people in North Africa, Latin America and the U.S. — an indication that the spread of false information is still a big problem as America heads into the 2020 election.
After a teenager in North Dakota overdosed on the deadly drug fentanyl, a young Drug Enforcement Administration agent sprang into action. 
Through his investigation, he uncovered a global supply chain that 
Our 
Long before appearing in 
Its creator, L.L. Zamenhof, was from what is now Poland. He hoped that Esperanto would be adopted universally as a way to bridge international differences. If everyone spoke the same language, he reasoned, “education, ideals, convictions, aims, would be the same too, and all nations would be united in a common brotherhood.”
Zamenhof was 
Esperanto has a Latin-based alphabet of 28 letters and relatively simple grammar rules.
While no country recognizes it as an official language, Esperanto has recently experienced a surge of interest online, including on 
As an Esperantist would say, “Bonan matenon!” (“Good morning!”)
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Alisha