
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning,
We start today with a last-ditch 
Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain 
Her “new Brexit deal,” as she described it, would give Parliament a broader role in shaping her plan. But the part that drew the most attention was her vague offer to have lawmakers vote on whether to have a second referendum, something she had previously ruled out. It was unclear what questions any referendum would pose. 
The plan seemed designed to entice pro-Brexit Labour Party lawmakers to support her Brexit blueprint. 
Some 200,000 Jews live in Germany, a nation of 82 million people, and many are increasingly fearful 
The country’s culture of remembrance of the Holocaust has been held up as a model. But its ideals are not universally supported at home. Anti-Semitic crimes in Germany increased by nearly 20 percent last year, to 1,799. And in an E.U. survey of European Jews in 2018, 85 percent of respondents in Germany characterized anti-Semitism as a “very big” or “fairly big” problem.
Since his election two years ago, President Emmanuel Macron of France has fashioned himself as the leader of Europe, 
Mr. Macron’s vision now faces its most critical test in elections for the European Parliament that start on Thursday. Polls in France show his party trailing Marine Le Pen’s far-right Rassemblement National, or National Rally. 
“We can’t let people think this is just an ordinary moment,” one of Mr. Macron’s advisers said. “Europe is at risk, and everyone has got to be conscious of it.”
When 
A team of physicists, funded in part by Mars, the confectionary company, published a paper last week
Today, we have guidance for booking an R.V. or camper for 
But 5G networks may have unintended consequences for meteorology.
The Federal Communications Commission has begun auctioning U.S. rights to radio frequencies for 5G use. And there is a concern, 
Monitoring water vapor yields valuable data that can be fed into weather-modeling programs. Forecasters can’t just switch to another band — there would be no water-vapor data there.
In 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Melina