
Good morning. 
U.S. officials are poised to formally request that Canada extradite Meng Wanzhou a day after the Justice Department laid out its case against her and Huawei, the Chinese telecommunications company she helps lead. Ms. Meng was arrested nearly two months ago at the behest of the U.S. and is under house arrest in Vancouver.
Huawei denied the charges, and China’s Foreign Ministry called for the release of Ms. Meng.
But the developments could further damage relations between the U.S. and China, leaving Huawei — and Beijing — with very 
British lawmakers, voting on a broad spectrum of amendments to Prime Minister Theresa May’s withdrawal plan, embraced for a measure that, in principle, 
Parliament also rejected delaying Brexit beyond the March 29 deadline.
The U.S. State Department said it gave Juan Guaidó, who last week declared himself the interim president of the country, the right to control Venezuelan assets and property in U.S. banks.
After years of expansion and record-setting profits, Apple appears to be entering a period of vulnerability.
The technology giant reported that 
The company is also uniquely vulnerable to tariffs against China, where most of its products are assembled, and has not, since the introduction of the iPhone a decade ago, produced anything with the same impact.
What does it really mean for something to be off the record?
Or on the record, for that matter?
When reporters talk to sources, we try to establish ground rules in plain English. For example: Can we quote you by name?
But there is also a shorthand for these questions, and 
If the conversation is on the record, then we can quote the source and use his or her name. That’s our strong preference — always.
Off-the-record conversations are generally understood to be confidential. We can’t use anything for publication.
(Then there are background and deep background, where it gets complicated.)
“Sources come to reporters for all sorts of reasons,” Mr. Flegenheimer writes, “many of them less than pure.”
But, he adds: “These exchanges can have tremendous value. Many of our best scoops are the fruit of such encounters. And you can quote me on that.”