
Good morning. 
It seems Prime Minister Theresa May’s sacrificial promise to resign in exchange for support for her withdrawal plan has made little difference.
To add to the complications, none of the eight alternative Brexit plans that lawmakers voted on on Wednesday mustered a majority, setting the stage for yet more debates in Parliament on Monday to try to whittle down the list for a second round of voting.
The Trump administration is pushing a Chinese firm, Beijing Kunlun, to 
This appears to be the first case in which the U.S. has asserted that foreign control of a social media app has national security implications.
The broad push is driven by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S., which last year killed a merger between MoneyGram, a money transfer firm, and Ant Financial, a payments company related to Alibaba.
This heightened scrutiny runs in tandem with the administration’s campaign to block Huawei from building next-generation 5G networks around the world over concerns that it would give Beijing access to critical data.
Hezbollah fighters directed by Iran to fight the Islamic State have missed paychecks. Promised funding and support to help Syria rebuild have failed to materialize.
The Trump administration says the punitive sanctions on Iran are working as they were meant to: 
“When you try to push Iran out of the region by sanctioning it,” said one expert, “you are forcing it to get involved in the region even more.”
Two rifts on the Brunt Ice Shelf, in West Antarctica, are close to calving, or breaking off, creating an iceberg over 560 square miles (1,450 square kilometers) in size — about twice the size of New York City.
The rifts were stable for 30 years, but in 2016, an image showed the two advancing toward each other. Scientists say the break could trigger the further retreat of the entire shelf. 
Two American astronauts are making a spacewalk today, just not the two who would have made history.
[
One of the two, Christina Koch, was originally paired with Anne McClain for what was supposed to be the first all-female spacewalk.
That made us think about the media coverage of women in space. In 1963, the cosmonaut Valentina Tereshkova, 26, became the first, orbiting the Earth aboard the Vostok 6. She is now 82 and a member of Russia’s Parliament.
“Soviet Blonde Orbiting as First Woman in Space” was the headline in