
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning. 
A seemingly 
It seems Prime Minister Theresa May’s sacrificial promise to resign in exchange for support for her withdrawal plan has made little difference.
To add to the complications, none of the eight alternative Brexit plans on which lawmakers voted on Wednesday mustered a majority, setting the stage for yet another round of debates in Parliament next week.
That was President Trump, reveling in 
“After three years of lies and smears and slander, the Russia hoax is finally dead,” Mr. Trump declared. “The collusion delusion is over.”
There were greater-than-usual concerns about trouble at the rally, with security personnel more visible and sturdier barriers between the news media and the audience. But the mood in the crowd seemed no more intense, our reporters found, than at previous Trump rallies.
Hezbollah fighters directed by Iran to fight the Islamic State have missed paychecks. Promised funds and support to help Syria rebuild have failed to materialize.
The Trump administration says the punitive sanctions on Iran are working as they were meant to: 
“When you try to push Iran out of the region by sanctioning it,” said one expert, “you are forcing it to get involved in the region even more.”
Two rifts on the Brunt Ice Shelf, in West Antarctica, are close to calving, or breaking off, creating an iceberg over 560 square miles (1,450 square kilometers) in size — about twice the size of New York City.
The rifts were stable for 30 years, but in 2016, an image showed the two advancing toward each other. Scientists say the break could trigger the further retreat of the entire shelf. 
Two American astronauts are making a spacewalk today, just not the two who would have made history.
One of the two, Christina Koch, was originally paired with Anne McClain for what was supposed to be the first all-female spacewalk. 
That made us think about the media coverage of women in space. In 1963, the cosmonaut Valentina Tereshkova, 26, became the first, orbiting the Earth aboard the Vostok 6. She is now 82 and a member of Russia’s Parliament.
“Soviet Blonde Orbiting as First Woman in Space” was the headline in