
Good morning.
Sorry we’re late — we were dealing with some technical difficulties. Let’s jump in.
In 
The E.U. now has to decide whether to grant Britain another extension. But Mr. Johnson said he would “pause” the legislation and tell European leaders that the country isn’t interested in another extension. 
Feeling lost? You’re not alone. But today’s developments could mean months of further delays and a possible general election.
“How welcome it is, even joyful, that for the first time in this long saga, this House has actually accepted its responsibilities together, come together, and embraced a deal,” Mr. Johnson said.
Our reporter Ben Hubbard and photographer Ivor Prickett visited 
They found that most of the detainees were foreigners and their countries had refused to bring them back home, leaving them stuck in chaos after the recent Turkish invasion.
“Will the Kurds maintain control of the prisons? Will determining these men’s fate fall to Turkey or the government of President Bashar al-Assad? Might they escape to fight another day?” Mr. Hubbard writes. “No one knows.”
In what Democrats called the most damaging impeachment testimony yet, William Taylor, the top U.S. diplomat in Ukraine, 
Mr. Taylor characterized the situation as “a rancorous story” about “side channels, quid pro quos, corruption and interference in elections.” 
The beleaguered work space company 
The SoftBank sale values WeWork at 
The company’s unusual corporate governance structure also worried investors, forcing its co-founder Adam Neumann to step down as chief executive. Under the SoftBank deal, Mr. Neumann would receive a $1.7 billion payout (more on this below) and also leave the board.
Desalinated seawater is increasingly seen as an answer to water shortages that will worsen with population growth and climate change.
Regardless of your age, it’s good to have a will. 
The WeWork co-founder Adam Neumann will get a huge payout as part of a deal that will give control of the co-working start-up to its Japanese investor, Softbank — a move that some described as an enormous “
The definition has become broader over the years, and has come to mean any large corporate severance payout, especially if the executive in question has a tarnished reputation.
Where does Mr. Neumann rank in the annals of golden parachutes? It depends on how you measure his payout, which includes a line of credit and the ability to sell some of his shares to Softbank. But the co-founder’s “consulting fee” of $185 million, on its own, 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Alisha