
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re taking a look at the intense campaign season ahead of the 
Prime Minister Boris Johnson threw the question of Brexit back to the British people on Tuesday, when he 
The 438-20 vote in Parliament, which came after the opposition Labour Party dropped its resistance, provided the starting point of an unpredictable six-week race that could change Britain’s relationship to the world.
The election, for Mr. Johnson, is a bet that he and his Conservative Party can win a parliamentary majority. That is uncertain.
Britain could end up in the same political cul-de-sac it is in today, with no party winning a clear majority, or the Labour leader, Jeremy Corbyn, could ride a wave of public disgust over government deadlock and end up in the prime minister’s office. His party would likely open up a second referendum on the whole departure.
Lt. Col. Alexander Vindman, a Ukraine expert on the National Security Council, on Tuesday told House impeachment investigators that the official White House account of the president’s call with Ukraine
He said he tried to restore them, but two mentions of former Vice President Joe Biden and Burisma, the Ukrainian company for which Mr. Biden’s son Hunter had worked, were left out.
Russia has been playing for power in Africa in recent years by sending arms, offering mercenaries and cinching mining deals.
More quietly, the Kremlin has started to set up a low-profile infrastructure of political influence that resembles its strategy in Europe and the U.S. — and 
It wants to convey that while Western Europe and the U.S. are exploiting Africa — and have been for centuries — Moscow is ready to engage on mutually beneficial terms.
Above, Ian Hislop, one of the “captains” on “Have I Got News For You,” on a recent episode with Layla Moran, a member of Parliament from the Liberal Democrat party.
Many viewers of the comedy show “Have I Got News for You” trace Boris Johnson’s ascent back to the ’90s, the first of many times he would appear on the long-running BBC quiz show.
Back then, he was a failed Conservative Party candidate. Throughout the years, he would return to the set in different roles, but would always 
And 
John Legend and Kelly Clarkson are 
The song, written in 1944, has a surprising history — including a small role in 
Critics say the song depicts a man refusing to take “no” for an answer. Complicating matters, there have been versions with women playing the aggressor — including one where 
“What will my friends think?”
“I think they should rejoice.”
“If I have one more drink?”
“It’s your body, and your choice.”
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Melina