
LONDON — Britain’s Parliament grabbed control Monday of the government’s efforts to leave the European Union, challenging the country’s political traditions and inflicting on Prime Minister Theresa May a rebuke not suffered by any recent predecessor.
By stepping into the process known as Brexit and trying to define an alternative path, lawmakers could create a constitutional showdown in Britain, where the government normally controls the agenda in Parliament, especially on its most pressing issues.
Parliament passed an amendment giving itself the power to vote on alternatives to the government’s Brexit plan. Its attempt to take control of the process came as Mrs. May prepared for a last-ditch effort to persuade lawmakers to support her withdrawal plan, which has already been 
On Monday she admitted that there was “not sufficient support” to make another quick attempt to push it through, though she might try again on Thursday.
Mrs. May’s grip on power is ebbing, with members of her cabinet openly discussing contradictory Brexit policies, rumors swirling of a plot to replace her and several of her Conservative Party lawmakers calling on her to name a date for her departure from power. She has already said she will not lead the party into the next general election scheduled for 2022.
The basics of Brexit, the troubled plan for Britain to quit the European Union.
The latest maneuvers come at the start of a week that was supposed to see Britain leaving the European Union, something that Mrs. May had promised more than 100 times would happen on March 29. Instead, Britain will remain at least until April 12, though what happens thereafter is anyone’s guess at the moment.
Nonetheless, this week is shaping up to be critical, both for Mrs. May and for those who oppose her withdrawal plan from the bloc, which would provide for a status quo transition period but would eventually aim to take Britain out of Europe’s main economic structures.
Last week, European Union leaders 
Parliament’s attempt to take control was led by Oliver Letwin, a veteran Conservative lawmaker, and is driven largely by fear of leaving without an agreement, a rupture that could leave ports jammed and cause huge economic dislocation. A “no deal” Brexit remains the default option if the deadlock in Britain continues, and the risks of it happening by accident are increasing.
Richard Harrington, who had warned of the risks of leaving the European Union without an agreement, resigned his post as business minister in Mrs. May’s cabinet in order to support the amendment.
In a hard-hitting resignation letter, Mr. Harrington said that “the government’s approach to Brexit is playing Russian roulette with the lives and livelihoods of the vast majority of people in this country.”
Under the amendment brought forth by Mr. Letwin, which passed by a vote of 329 to 302, Parliament will hold a series of votes on Wednesday on alternatives to Mrs. May’s plan.
These could include a so-called “soft Brexit” that would keep Britain tied into European economic structures; a second referendum, revoking Brexit completely; or leaving without any deal.
Speaking before lawmakers passed the amendment, Mrs. May said she could not commit to honoring the outcome of any of these nonbinding parliamentary votes, particularly if they contradicted the pro-Brexit stance in the Conservative Party’s manifesto for the 2017 general election.
After the vote, the government responded with a statement that said that the amendment “upends the balance between our democratic institutions and sets a dangerous, unpredictable precedent for the future.”
Mrs. May is still hoping that no alternative will command more support than her blueprint, giving her a realistic shot at pushing her plan through by presenting it as the only alternative to a no-deal Brexit or a long extension.
Critics think that Mrs. May is favoring the interests of her Conservative Party by being willing to contemplate a no-deal Brexit — something hard-line pro-Brexit Tory lawmakers back — over a cross-party effort to produce a softer Brexit that might win approval from Parliament but would split the Tories and possibly precipitate a second election.
On the other hand, moderate voices in the party complain that allowing a no-deal Brexit against much opposition would be a risky move that could haunt the party for years to come.
The leader of the opposition Labour Party, Jeremy Corbyn, said that he would support the push for a series of so-called indicative votes on other options for Brexit, telling lawmakers that it was “time for Parliament to take control.”
On Saturday 
Despite all her problems, Mrs. May still seems safe from an immediate leadership challenge.
But some of her pro-Brexit critics say they might vote for her deal if she promises to stand aside soon and let someone else take over for the next phase of Brexit talks that will determine Britain’s trade ties. That could put pressure on her to announce a departure date.
Demonstrably, discipline has almost completely broken down inside the government and there is a feeling among many at Westminster that something has to give soon.
On Sunday, the chancellor of the Exchequer, Philip Hammond, described a second referendum, something Mrs. May has refused to entertain, as a “coherent proposition” that deserved consideration. His colleague, the Brexit secretary Stephen Barclay, said that if Parliament voted for a soft Brexit plan, it could precipitate a general election.