
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
New details about the 
Less than a day after Speaker Nancy Pelosi announced an impeachment inquiry into President Trump, the White House 
■ In a July 25 phone call, Mr. Trump urged the Ukrainian president, Volodymyr Zelensky, to consider investigating Joe Biden, the former vice president, and alluded to American aid to Ukraine. (Note: The linkage was not explicit, and the document was not verbatim.) 
■ A whistle-blower complaint filed by an anonymous intelligence officer, as described by members of Congress who saw it under strict security, conveys concerns about how the White House handled the phone records and identifies multiple witnesses. The inspector general for the intelligence community
■ A Justice Department official told The Times that after the whistle-blower raised concerns, the inspector general and the acting director of national intelligence referred the complaint for a possible criminal investigation into the president’s actions. The Justice Department concluded that there was no basis for a criminal investigation into Mr. Trump’s behavior.
■ On Wednesday afternoon, Mr. Trump appeared alongside Mr. Zelensky on the sidelines of the U.N. General Assembly. “We had, I think, a good phone call. It was normal. We spoke about many things,” Mr. Zelensky said of their conversation. “Nobody pushed me,” he added. Then Mr. Trump jumped in, “In other words, no pressure.”
The journalist who started France’s equivalent of the #MeToo campaign against sexual harassment, Sandra Muller, above, lost a defamation case brought by the man she accused of misconduct. 
In the U.S., Ms. Muller was among a group of women whom Time magazine named “Person of the Year” in 2017. But in France, the #MeToo movement 
T, The Times’s style magazine, has a guide on 
A written record of a presidential conversation is making front-page headlines — and not for the first time. 
During the impeachment investigation of President Richard Nixon, he 
But Nixon had 
Eventually, the Supreme Court ordered Nixon to release the tapes of 64 of his conversations, one of which — “the smoking gun” — implicated him.
Infamously, one tape in the Nixon collection had an 18-and-a-half-minute gap during a critical conversation between the president and his chief of staff. 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Melina