
Good morning. 
Alternative 
British lawmakers 
The least unpopular option, which lost by just three votes, was for 
There are less than 
Municipal voting in Turkey showed 
It was a huge surprise for a president who sought to ensure nobody could challenge him — purging the army, the police and the courts; strengthening his powers in the Constitution; and cowing the press. Our writer called it a 
Mr. Erdogan did not concede defeat on the results in Istanbul, which were still unofficial. But the tally showed the opposition candidate for mayor, Ekrem Imamoglu, ahead with 99 percent of the votes counted.
The results of municipal balloting were a barometer of Mr. Erdogan’s weakened standing among voters, amid a recession and his use of executive powers. 
At least 25 people got security clearances from Trump officials after career civil servants denied them for “
The whistle-blower, a manager in the White House’s Personnel Security Office, told a House committee that the denials — issued by her and other career officials — were overturned by officials with more seniority who, by her account, did not follow normal procedures.
A memo from the committee’s Democratic staff does not identify any of the 25 people. But one of the senior White House officials appears to be Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law and senior adviser.
An actor with no political experience easily finished first in the first round of Ukraine’s presidential election, and 
Volodymyr Zelensky, 41, is famous for a TV role where he played a schoolteacher who was accidentally vaulted into the presidency. He led with 30 percent, or 5.2 million votes, almost double the number of his nearest competitor, President Petro Poroshenko, who had just under 16 percent.
Because no candidate garnered more than 50 percent of the vote, Mr. Zelensky and the apparent second-place finisher, Mr. Poroshenko, will face each other in a runoff in three weeks.
We often ask readers for Back Story ideas. Zach Lewis of Chicago suggested we look at the naming of black and white rhinos, both of which are in fact gray.
They do have 
In 2003, 
The most popular idea: The Afrikaans word “wyd,” or Dutch “wijd,” meaning wide, became “white.” “Black” was simply an easy contrast.
Some other theories: The grazing rhino looked white in grasslands; it rolled in lighter mud or was often covered in bird droppings; albinism is more common among white rhinos; and that at some point, the rhinos were noticeably lighter and darker.
The mistranslation theory was the only one he found provably incorrect. “There is no record of ‘wydrhinoceros’ in the literature,” he emailed recently, noting that Dutch speakers would have used “breed,” meaning broad, rather than “wyd.”