
Good morning. 
In a rare televised speech, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the country had 
“India stands tall as a space power!” Mr. Modi wrote on Twitter shortly after the announcement.
The feat — which means India could blind another country by taking out its communication and surveillance satellites — gives India a significant military advantage in a region where China is the dominating force.
Hours before Parliament began voting on alternative Brexit options, Mrs. May 
The offer overshadowed an already momentous day, as lawmakers began voting on eight alternative plans. Some keep close ties to the European Union, some call for a second referendum and some for a no-deal Brexit.
Lawmakers pressed federal regulators about oversight of the aviation industry, including how the new Boeing 737 Max 8 jet, which has been involved in two deadly crashes, was certified. We’re bringing you 
Wednesday kicked off with the transportation secretary, Elaine Chao, being questioned about the relationship between the Federal Aviation Administration and the companies it regulates, including Boeing.
Over two hours, she was pressed about the existence of optional safety features for the Max jet and why the F.A.A. hadn’t moved quickly to ground the jets after the crash of Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302 on March 10.
The F.A.A.’s acting administrator, Daniel Elwell, in his testimony defended the agency’s certification procedures as “extensive” and “well-established.” 
Trade negotiations between the world’s two largest economies have dragged on for more than a year, with one particular sticking point: an enforcement mechanism that would allow the U.S. to unilaterally impose tariffs if China reneges on its end of the deal.
China’s resistance stems from 
“Every schoolchild in China and every educated Chinese person knows about the ‘century of humiliation,’” a historian said.
Batman turns
In “
The hero visits a parallel world and prevents the deaths of his parents, the cataclysmic event that makes Bruce Wayne become Batman. (Parallel earths were a favorite of your Back Story writer, since they imagined so many different paths for DC’s heroes.)
Batman observes a bratty other-Bruce, but he is transfixed by Thomas and Martha Wayne: 
The story’s epilogue is genius. The other-Bruce is changed. While our Batman was born of grief, guilt or vengeance, this one knows a tragedy was averted and is driven by awe, mystery and gratitude.