
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering a new 
With a bill stopping a no-deal exit from the E.U. on its way to becoming law, the British Parliament pivoted to the next big question: 
Opposition lawmakers have so far blocked Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s plan for a mid-October election, saying they would like to see the no-deal option officially off the table before Mr. Johnson can secure a clear majority in an election, undo the law and force an Oct. 31 exit.
Days after Hurricane Dorian bore down in fury on the Bahamas, the death count there — 30 confirmed so far, with the authorities warning it may be much higher — continued to rise, as 
The full human toll is still uncertain, but thousands were left homeless and local officials were concerned they would not have the resources to deal with the aftermath. We have a 
About one million Rohingya Muslim refugees who fled ethnic cleansing in Myanmar are 
Citing state security and public safety, the Bangladeshi government has threatened to impose a communications blackout on Sunday at the resettlement where they live — the world’s largest.
Reports from the camps say that mobile internet service has already been disrupted at night and early in the morning, and a curfew keeps aid workers and others out.
Amazon directs the destinations, deadlines and routes for its network of contract delivery drivers. But when they crash, the retail giant often escapes responsibility, 
More than 60 accidents across the U.S. since June 2015 resulted in serious injuries, including 10 deaths. And that could be only a small fraction of the actual number: Many people don’t sue, and those who do can’t always tell when Amazon is involved.
“Friends,” believe it or not, turns 25 this month. With one of the best casts in TV history, the comedy ran for a decade, typically had around 25 million to 30 million viewers a week and still 
Our multipart salute also posits that the ever-quirky 
And if you’re heading out on vacation, 
When Piggly Wiggly opened its doors on this day in 1916, grocery shopping changed forever.
It quickly became the standard.
The store became a national chain, making its inventor, Clarence Saunders, a tycoon. His 
But by 1923, he was involved in a bitter dispute with the New York Stock Exchange. He had cornered Piggly Wiggly stock in retaliation after traders shorted it. The fallout resulted in a slew of lawsuits and 
“They have it all — everything I built, the greatest stores of their kind in the world, but they didn’t get the man that was father to the idea,” Mr. Saunders said. “They have the body of Piggly Wiggly, but they didn’t get the soul.”
His next venture was a little too far ahead of his time. His “
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Melina