
LONDON — Add this to the list of headaches faced by Britain’s government as it frantically tries to prepare for Brexit: a 33 million pound (about $44 million) payment to settle a lawsuit brought by Eurotunnel, the company that operates the rail link between France and Britain. 
Eurotunnel had sued Britain’s Department for Transport over the handling of contracts to provide extra transportation capacity in the event the country leaves the European Union without a deal in place. 
The company accused the British government of 
In December, 
The government also signed a contract with Seaborne Freight, a ferry company that was later 
The government settled the case with Eurotunnel to avoid a prolonged legal tussle as it tries to make arrangements for March 29, when the country is scheduled to exit the European Union. 
Government departments and Britain’s businesses have been furiously preparing in case the country leaves the European Union without an agreement setting the terms of the separation. There are fears that the lack of clarity over port arrangements could lead to gridlock on the roads and problems getting food and medicine to people in Britain. 
“We are taking steps to ensure supply chains continue to function, whatever the circumstances of our departure, and that mitigation is in place to avoid disruption at borders,” Stephen Barclay, the Brexit secretary, said in a statement on Friday. 
Chris Grayling, the transport secretary, added, “While it is disappointing that Eurotunnel chose to take legal action on contracts in place to ensure the smooth supply of vital medicines, I am pleased that this agreement will ensure the Channel Tunnel is ready for a post-Brexit world.” 
Eurotunnel agreed to withdraw its case and take unspecified actions to improve security and traffic flow. 
“Eurotunnel has concluded an out-of-court agreement with the secretary of state for transport that will ensure that the Channel Tunnel remains the preferred route for vital goods to travel between the E.U. and the U.K.,” the company said. 