
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering a breakdown in 
Britain is giving up its efforts to strike a deal with the uncompromising European Union and 
The breakdown in talks came after Prime Minister Boris Johnson and Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany had a phone conversation in which, according to one British official, Ms. Merkel dashed hopes of a deal. But the details of the call, which Britain called “frank” and Germany called “
The E.U. called Mr. Johnson’s approach a “stupid blame game” and warned him against the histrionics.
But Germany said Ms. Merkel did not go beyond the E.U.’s previously disclosed objections to 
A top-secret elite unit inside the Russian intelligence system is 
Unit 29155, whose existence has not been reported until now, may have links to the secretive side of the so-called hybrid warfare promoted by Russia’s president, Vladimir Putin, in which open warfare is paired with a blend of propaganda, hacking attacks and disinformation.
A retired Russian intelligence officer with knowledge of Unit 29155 said that it specialized in preparing for “diversionary” missions, “in groups or individually — bombings, murders, anything.”
Across Europe, embattled traditional parties are grappling with how to deal with the disruptive force of the far right: isolate and contain it, or work with it in hopes of winning back voters?
Creeping cooperation 
More recently, we collected some 
President Trump tweeted on Tuesday that he wouldn’t allow a diplomat to testify at an impeachment inquiry because he considered it “a totally compromised kangaroo court.”
Paging Ron Ziegler! In July 1974, the White House press secretary attacked the House Judiciary Committee deliberating the impeachment of Richard Nixon, calling it a “kangaroo court.”
The term — describing an irresponsible body that is preprogrammed to disregard justice — goes back at least as far as Aug. 24, 1841, when 
The Americanism spread to international English, but its full origins are a mystery. 
Some speculate that the meaning may be linked to Australian immigrants, or derive from a similarity between a kangaroo’s jumping and a court’s jumping to conclusions.
That’s it for this briefing. Millions of people have decided that our journalism is worth paying for. 
— Melina