
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning,
We’re covering a purge of 
A day after the U.S. homeland security secretary, Kirstjen Nielsen, resigned, the departures of the director of the Secret S
The exodus appeared to be part of an 
Many immigration policy changes require congressional approval, however.
Prime Minister Theresa May’s government continued meeting with officials from the opposition Labour Party to discuss a compromise plan for Britain’s withdrawal from the E.U., which is currently scheduled for Friday.
Over the weekend, Mrs. May suggested that a compromise could be worked out around immigration from the E.U., which could pave the way for maintaining close economic ties with the bloc.
Jeremy Corbyn, the Labour leader, faces a decision after years of ambiguity 
Tens of thousands of demonstrators in Sudan are demanding the ouster of an autocratic ruler. In Algeria, millions of protesters forced out their own octogenarian leader last week. And in Libya, an aging general is battling to establish himself as a new strongman.
The hopes inspired in 2011 by the Arab Spring uprising, or the waves of anti-government protests in Egypt, Libya, Syria, Tunisia and Yemen, are 
Protesters are seeking an end to closed and corrupt economies and authoritarian governments that are unresponsive to the public. “History repeats itself,” said one leader of the Egyptian uprising of 2011.
The country heads into 
Mr. Netanyahu has overseen healthy economic growth, but charges of bribery, fraud and breach of trust have loomed over his campaign.
The West Bank is home to 2.6 million Palestinians. If Mr. Netanyahu carried out his promise, it could end any possibility of a two-state solution.
Our reporter got aboard 
But even the existing segment offers a voyage of many discoveries.
We also have guidance on how to 
Lately, 
Ms. Quant, a trailblazer of Swinging Sixties fashion, famously said she “didn’t have time to wait for women’s lib.” Her higher-than-high hemlines insisted on young women’s right to bare their legs.
She named her trademark skirt after her favorite car, 
Pieces of clothing resembling miniskirts have been identified by archaeologists 
Bans
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Melina