
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering a dramatic finale to the longest session of the 
Monday was the end of 
Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s plan to bolster support in his thinning Conservative Party with a general election was voted down late Monday. Parliament’s push to avert a no-deal Brexit became law. And lawmakers also voted to force the publication of 
If Mr. Johnson had thought he could outfox Parliament by suspending it, sidelining lawmakers at a critical moment in the Brexit debate, he ended up being outmaneuvered.
Parliament is now suspended until mid-October. 
Allies of President Vladimir Putin suffered significant losses in Moscow city council elections, preliminary results showed, 
But beyond Moscow, the Kremlin still held full control of the political situation, winning all 16 of the governor’s races. The Kremlin declared victory, but opponents dismissed that. 
A pilots’ strike led the British airline to 
The pilots were demanding higher pay and had been negotiating with the airline since November. These were the latest of several cancellations the airline has had to handle (many of which 
As American officials realized Russia was trying to sabotage the 2016 presidential election, an informant who worked his way to the top levels of the Kremlin became 
But when details about the C.I.A.’s Kremlin sources were publicized, officials worried about safety and moved to extract the source from Russia. The end of the informant’s career effectively blinded American intelligence officials
And guess what? Skin care masks aren’t just for faces anymore. (
Jerry West, the former Los Angeles Lakers star, was 
Mr. Trump simply called him Jerry, but around the N.B.A. he’s universally known as “the Logo.”
In 1969, J. Walter Kennedy, the N.B.A.’s commissioner, asked a brand consultant, Alan Siegel, to come up with a new logo modeled after Major League Baseball’s minimalist red-and-blue one. Mr. Siegel 
Fifty years later, the result endures — though the N.B.A. has never acknowledged it, possibly to avoid having to pay the player royalties.
Mr. West, who boasts one N.B.A. championship as a player and eight as an executive, would really prefer not to have the attention, or the logo.
“It’s flattering,” 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Melina