
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering political surprises in 
The British prime minister, 
The maneuver sets up a showdown with lawmakers in the coming weeks and thrusts the country into further political uncertainty as the Oct. 31 Brexit deadline looms.
But now, Parliament will resume on Oct. 14 instead, leaving just over two weeks for lawmakers to fashion a deal with the E.U. to soften the exit. A departure without such terms could plunge the country into a recession, critics say. 
Warring political parties struck a deal late Wednesday to form 
The deal brings together the anti-establishment Five Star Movement and the center-left Democratic Party — vicious foes until just days ago — but the marriage of convenience might not be any more stable than the previous government.
As Japan formally 
Japan can’t afford much economic pain either, with its global exports steadily declining since December. 
After the government announced its plan in July, Seoul responded by removing Japan from its own list of trade partners and 
As the trade war between Beijing and Washington drags on, the renminbi continues its descent: It has 
When the renminbi 
The continuing drop could also reflect investors’ uncertainty about China’s economic health: More than $60 billion fled China in May and June. But there’s also evidence that Beijing has been trying to prop up the currency.
A high-profile lawsuit against Harvard College, filed by an organization representing Asian-American applicants who claim they had been victims of discrimination and bias, has split the student community. 
Our writer 
And we have 
The 
The crop, which originated in East Asia and is used to make soy sauce and tofu, is now largely grown in the Americas, with the U.S. and Brazil as the world’s top growers. Soybeans are most commonly used as cheap, high-protein animal feed.
The U.S.-China trade war has caused a huge shift, with China 
“Brazil has turned certain states like Mato Grosso into Iowa,” 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Alisha