
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering a call for a general election in 
Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Thursday challenged lawmakers to approve 
He is expected to present his proposal to Parliament on Monday, and it would still require the backing of two-thirds of lawmakers. That would be difficult without support from the opposition Labour party, which so far has reacted coolly to the prospect of a general election. 
The 39 people found dead in a refrigerated truck trailer near London on Wednesday are 
Eight of the dead are women and 31 are men, the police said. Each body will undergo a full coroner’s examination to identify the victim and establish the cause of death. The driver of the truck, identified as Morris Robinson, has been arrested on suspicion of murder.
Huang Xueqin, a leading figure in China’s #MeToo movement who recently wrote in support of the antigovernment protests in Hong Kong, was 
The authorities accused Ms. Huang of “picking quarrels and provoking trouble,” a vague accusation that is often used to silence activists who challenge the status quo.
In June, she wrote an essay about her experience attending the first big demonstration in Hong Kong. Two months later, the police on the mainland confiscated her passport and harassed her relatives, her friends said.
Nusrat Jahan Rafi accused a teacher of touching her inappropriately, then faced intense pressure to withdraw the accusations. 
When she refused, she was doused with kerosene and set on fire. On the way to the hospital her brother recorded her naming her attackers. She died four days later, and her killing sent a shock wave across the country.
On Thursday, a Bangladeshi court 
In May, the World Health Organization officially
Our 
The 
Movie trailers have come a long way since their introduction in the 1910s. Back then, according to a 
For decades after, most trailers were produced by the same company — the National Screen Service — giving them a fairly uniform style. But in the 1960s, auteurs like Alfred Hitchcock and Stanley Kubrick began to produce their own trailers, applying their unique artistic sensibilities to the promotional clips.
In the modern era, trailers have become known for the deep-voiced narration made popular by 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Alisha