
Good morning.
Britain’s Parliament voted down all four alternative options to Prime Minister Theresa May’s thrice-rejected withdrawal plan, leaving the process in further disarray. We’re still trying to figure out what comes next but check back for updates on 
Only one option, which would have kept close economic ties to the E.U. with a customs union,
The social media network said on Monday that it had 
The deluge of fake news provided Facebook with a taste of what’s to come over the next few weeks as the election campaign kicks into high gear before voting begins on April 11.
It also underscored a set of challenges unique to India: Its dozens of languages confound screening software and human moderators, many of the falsehoods come directly from political candidates and parties, and much of the fake news is spread on WhatsApp, Facebook’s popular encrypted messaging app that provides little visibility into content that is being shared.
Sheng Xue left China for Canada after the 1989 Tiananmen Square uprising and became a prominent advocate for democracy in China.
But for over six years, she has been the victim of 
The move 
On May 1, 
The Japanese government on Monday revealed the name of the new imperial era that will begin after the current emperor, Akihito, abdicates the throne on April 30.
Each emperor’s reign is accompanied by a name for his time on the throne, which goes on to become an important part of daily life and ends up defining the period.
Akihito, 85, will become Japan’s first monarch to step down in more than 200 years, which brings an end to his era, Heisei — roughly translated to “achieving peace.” His son, Crown Prince Naruhito, will take his place next month. 
The term Reiwa has multiple meanings, including “order and peace,” “auspicious harmony” or “joyful harmony.”
We often ask readers for Back Story ideas. Zach Lewis of Chicago suggested we look at the naming of black and white rhinos, both of which are in fact gray.
They do have 
In 2003, 
The most popular idea: The Afrikaans word “wyd,” or Dutch “wijd,” meaning wide, became “white.” “Black” was simply an easy contrast.
Some other theories: The grazing rhino looked white in grasslands; it rolled in lighter mud or was often covered in bird droppings; albinism is more common among white rhinos; and that at some point, the rhinos were noticeably lighter and darker.
The mistranslation theory was the only one he found provably incorrect. “There is no record of ‘wydrhinoceros’ in the literature,” he emailed recently, noting that Dutch speakers would have used “breed,” meaning broad, rather than “wyd.”