
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning,
We’re covering a rare statement from 
The special counsel Robert Mueller characterized for the first time his investigation of President Trump, saying, “If we had enough confidence that the president clearly did not commit a crime, 
He continued, “We did not, however, make a determination as to whether the president did commit a crime.”
He also said that while Justice Department policy prohibits charging a sitting president with a crime, the Constitution provides for another process to formally accuse a sitting president of wrongdoing — a clear reference to the ability of Congress to begin impeachment proceedings.
The Chinese telecommunications giant filed 
Huawei 
Huawei says
Factional squabbles 
As a result, Israelis will return to the ballot box in about three months. It’s the first time Israel has been forced to hold a new national election because of a failure to form a government after the previous election.
Mr. Netanyahu seemed to have an easy path back to power after elections last month. But a
In June 2017, a blaze at Grenfell Tower killed 72 people. It was Britain’s deadliest housing fire since World War II. The cheap material that covered the 24-story building turned it into a death trap, and Prime Minister Theresa May promised that “no stone will be left unturned” to ensure the disaster would never be repeated.
Nearly two years later, 
Some researchers are arguing that the stresses of flying — and they say income inequality is among them — contribute to 
British and European Union organizations are starting programs to minimize disruptions, many of which aim to curb drinking before or during flights.
And if you have children, our Travel editors have some suggestions and advice for family travel 
Tomorrow we celebrate the 200th birthday of the American literary giant who sought to bring his rhythmic prose-poetry to the masses.
But before he was known as the “good gray poet,” Walt Whitman cut his teeth as an apprentice at a weekly newspaper, The Long Island Patriot, and he continued to work as a journalist for years after publishing the first edition of “Leaves of Grass.”
As editor of The Brooklyn Daily Times in 1857, Whitman reported on the citywide gang war between the Dead Rabbits and the Bowery Boys, and in editorials, he was a sharp critic of Mayor Fernando Wood.
When he lived in Washington during the Civil War, he wrote of the wounded in military hospitals for several New York papers, including 
As his success grew, Whitman’s bylines turned into headlines. And in the months leading up to his death, his health was 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Melina