
LONDON — Just minutes after Prime Minister Theresa May’s plan for leaving the European Union was resoundingly defeated on Tuesday night, the leader of the opposition Labour Party, Jeremy Corbyn, rose in Parliament and vowed in thunderous tones to unseat her.
For Mr. Corbyn, a soft-spoken outsider who stormed to the top of the opposition party three years ago, the moment marked a crossroads. After years of 
In the end, Mrs. May clung to power as lawmakers beat back the challenge against her. But Mr. Corbyn has still emerged with an enormous amount of influence to shape the Brexit battle moving forward.
Not only did Mrs. May barely survive the no-confidence vote in the House of Commons, she also suffered 
Mr. Corbyn’s Labour Party, on the other hand, suffered only three defections in Tuesday’s vote. Now any path forward will probably depend on votes from the opposition, especially the Labour Party.
“I don’t see any feasible majority for any outcome to this process that doesn’t involve a substantial number of Labour voters being committed to supporting it,” said Robert Ford, a professor of politics at the University of Manchester.
transcript
“The ‘ayes’ to the right, 202. The ‘nos’ to the left, 432. So the ‘nos’ have it.” “The House has spoken, and the government will listen. It is clear that the House does not support this deal, but tonight’s vote tells us nothing about what it does support. Mr. Speaker, I want to end by offering two reassurances. The first is to those who fear that the government’s strategy is to run down the clock to the 29th of March. That is not our strategy. The second reassurance is to the British people who voted to leave the European Union in the referendum two and a half years ago. I became prime minister immediately after that referendum. I believe it’s my duty to deliver on their instruction, and I intend to do so.” “This is a catastrophic defeat for this government. After two years of failed negotiations, The House of Commons has delivered its verdict on her Brexit deal, and that verdict is absolutely decisive. Her governing principle of delay and denial has reached the end of the line. She cannot seriously believe that after two years of failure, she is capable of negotiating a good deal for the people of this country. The most important issue facing us is that the government has lost the confidence of this House and this country. I therefore, Mr. Speaker, inform you I have now tabled a motion of no confidence in this government, and I’m pleased — I’m pleased that motion will be debated tomorrow, so this House can give its verdict on the sheer incompetence of this government and pass that motion of no confidence in the government.”
The biggest question now is what Mr. Corbyn will do with his power. He has long avoided defining a stance on how or whether to leave the European Union for fear of upsetting either pro- or anti-Brexit voters who could help bring his Labour Party back into a leadership role. But pressure is mounting for him now to take a stand.
If he chooses to back a “soft” Brexit maintaining close ties with the European Union, that proposal would probably pass. If he backs a second referendum that could thwart Brexit altogether, that would have at least a chance of passing. If he stands aside and lets Labour lawmakers back a version of Mrs. May’s deal, that, too, would be likely to pass.
The choice is not easy. The debate over Brexit within the Labour Party, while milder than the warfare among Mrs. May’s Conservatives, is dangerously divisive. And to achieve his ultimate goal of returning Labour to power and reversing decades of neoliberal policies, Mr. Corbyn needs a united party.
That presents him with a dilemma. As a lifelong critic of the European Union, which he has portrayed as a bankers’ club that blocks left-wing policies, Mr. Corbyn is loath to reverse Brexit and anger working-class Labour voters who opted to leave. But the Labour activists who powered his unlikely leadership bid are putting enormous pressure on him to do just that.
The predicament mirrors questions confronting left-wing parties in Europe and the United States about how to fight populist movements that trade on anti-immigrant sentiment.
Should they stand up for open borders and multiculturalism and risk cutting loose white workers who have drifted to the anti-immigrant right? Or try winning back those voters with a liberal version of the fight against global institutions, trade pacts and migration?
“If you look around Europe, center-left parties are facing a dilemma,” said Tim Bale, a professor of politics at Queen Mary, University of London, who has surveyed Labour membership on Brexit. “How do they maintain or even get back an electoral coalition of workers and middle-class, more educated voters?”
The daunting electoral math facing Labour has given Mr. Corbyn reasons for remaining vague.
At the most recent general election, in 2017, the party achieved unexpected victories in prosperous, pro-European parts of England. But if it is to form a government after the next election — scheduled for 2022, should Mrs. May’s government survive until then — it would also need the support of pro-Brexit voters in small towns who remained loyal to the Conservatives last time.
Mr. Corbyn rose 
“The danger here is that the shine is coming off the Corbyn project because of his triangulation on Brexit,” said Michael Chessum of Another Europe Is Possible, a left-wing group campaigning for Labour leaders to back a second Brexit referendum. “If people start to think that Corbyn is just another politician like all the other politicians, that is the thing that will kill the Corbyn project.”
But Mr. Corbyn also has allies within Labour cheering his strategy of not taking any particular side. Like him, they rank membership in the European Union low among their priorities, below the goals of ending austerity and pulling Britons out of poverty.
“Brexit is actually a relatively small issue compared to the social issues facing this country,” said Callum Cant, a Labour member and Corbyn backer. “Regardless of people’s position on the E.U., we need to fight together for a larger project of social transformation.”
A recent poll showed that Labour would have the support of roughly one-fifth of voters if it backed Brexit, and close to 40 percent if the party instead campaigned for a second referendum.
Even in seats that voted to leave the European Union, it is essential that Labour keep the backing of pro-Europeans, who are more likely to be in the party’s camp, said Professor Ford at the University of Manchester. And winning swing voters does not necessarily mean caving to anti-immigrant sentiment, he said.
“In a strange sort of way, the anti-immigration side winning at least temporarily seems to have the paradoxical effect of shifting opinion the other way,” he said.
While Labour Party members have largely stuck behind Mr. Corbyn so far, they overwhelmingly voted to remain in the European Union in the 2016 referendum, and nearly three-quarters would like a rerun, according to a study led by Professor Bale.
Thousands of them have submitted notes recently to a group that includes top lawmakers, some of them threatening to leave the party over Brexit and describing “despair” over Mr. Corbyn’s months of equivocating. Pro-European party activists have circulated a resolution saying Labour should demand a second referendum and campaign to stay in the bloc; up to 200 local parties are expected to debate it by the end of the month.
Could Mr. Corbyn defy them and vote through a Brexit plan? Grace Blakeley, another Labour member, said Mr. Corbyn would never explicitly support a government Brexit proposal, but might watch as Labour lawmakers defected to get behind such a deal.
She described the Labour leader’s strategy as angling for a populist movement that could win over pro-Brexit voters not by accommodating anti-immigrant views, but by making an economic argument for overturning the status quo.
On the left, she said, the most successful campaigns of recent years in Europe and elsewhere have taken “the existing economic anger and, rather than mobilizing it against migrants, mobilize it against elites and the establishment that have rigged the economy.”