
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering another defeat for 
European leaders accepted Britain’s request to 
Prime Minister Boris Johnson then tried to rally lawmakers to back a general election in December but was defeated as the opposition Labour Party — which has been divided over the merits of a quick election — 
With the support of the Liberal Democratic Party and the Scottish National Party, that motion is likely to pass, opening the door to a vote in December.
The death of Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi represents a setback for the terrorist group, but analysts believe that the organization that relies on franchises and sympathizers around the world 
“ISIS has created a new structure that is less centralized, and it will continue, even without al-Baghdadi,” one expert said.
The Communist Party’s Central Committee is meeting in Beijing this week amid 
President Xi Jinping has focused on solidifying the party’s authoritarian rule as a way to weather such challenges — the latest step in his yearslong campaign for change that included removing his own term limits.
According to two retired officials in Beijing and a businessman who talks to senior officials, there are jitters in the party elite about Mr. Xi’s policies though far from the level of concerted opposition.
More than 250 employees have 
“Free speech and paid speech are not the same thing,” 
Though the number is a fraction of Facebook’s 35,000-plus work force, the signatures are a sign of internal resistance that is in line with criticism from presidential candidates, lawmakers and civil rights groups.
The Indian-born British chef Romy Gill has long been intrigued by the different ways of living, speaking and eating in the state of Himachal Pradesh, which straddles the Western Himalayas. 
And our Social Q’s column takes on a knotty problem: 
An unmanned U.S. spacecraft landed on Sunday after 
The Boeing-built X-37B resembles a small version of NASA’s retired space shuttles. It was launched via a SpaceX rocket on Sept. 7, 2017, but flew back to the Kennedy Space Center like a plane.
Reporting on a prior flight, 
This flight’s mission was to “test experimental electronics and oscillating heat pipe technologies,” a 
That alarmed 
“This would be the first time that either the USA or Russia has blatantly flouted the Convention,” he tweeted.
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Alisha