
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning,
Today, we look at a 
Candida auris, a deadly fungus, preys on people with weakened immune systems and confuses doctors. It is 
Once the germ is present, it is hard to eradicate from a facility. Some hospitals have had to bring in special cleaning equipment and even rip out floor and ceiling tiles. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recently added it to a list of germs deemed “urgent threats.”
Here are 
A smartphone app in China called Study the Great Nation is becoming 
Users earn points by staying current on news about Mr. Xi, and many employers now require workers to submit daily screenshots documenting how many points they have earned.
More than 100 million people have registered as users since the app was released this year, according to the state news media. That wide adoption stems, at least in part, from coercion.
On a monthlong trip in Honduras, a Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist and a photographer explored the rampant corruption and gang violence that is leading thousands of women to seek asylum in the U.S. Our Opinion section 
The country is one of the world’s deadliest for women. Nine in 10 murders of women never go to court or result in a sentence. Women in one city described police responses to their domestic violence complaints: “You like getting hit, don’t you? Why don’t you resolve it between your bedsheets? Maybe you didn’t give him what he needed last night?”
Women’s murders aren’t investigated or prosecuted because of a toxic stew of corruption, incompetence, and a lack of both resources and interest, the investigation found.
The World Health Organization considers asbestos a serial killer, and a 2014 report found it kills more than 107,000 people each year. Sixty countries have banned it.
But for one Russian town 900 miles east of Moscow, nearly every family’s livelihood depends on the product. Many in Asbest, 
“Everything is potentially dangerous,” one resident said. “Why worry about asbestos so much?”
In 1981, a lawmaker strolled into India’s upper house wearing 
Across India, onions are among the few ingredients used in almost every dish, alongside salt and potatoes, making them 
Governments can fall when 
In this year’s election, though, low prices are the problem. Onion and 
Both the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Congress Party are 
In a new book about Indian voters’ moods, 
We also have advice about how to deal with jerks, 
Latin American ministers are descending on Quito, Ecuador’s capital, today to discuss Venezuela’s migration crisis.
The choice of location raises a question: When problems erupt on the continent, is there a dominant city where they’re hammered out?
Not exactly.
The city with the largest population is Mexico’s capital. The regional finance capital is Panama City. Brasília is the capital of Brazil, which has the continent’s biggest economy. Latin America’s exiles — from the Cubans to the Venezuelans themselves — head north to Miami, where Spanish is often more commonly spoken than English.
A peace agreement with Colombia’s rebels was even hammered out in Havana, a capital that had longstanding ties to both the rebels and the Colombian government. 
While other parts of the world have centers of gravity — think of Beijing, Brussels and Washington — Latin America is still searching for its own.
That’s it for this briefing, the second in our new format. We’d love to hear your thoughts at 
— Melina
• We’re listening to “