
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning,
Today, we look at a 
Hospitals and governments are reluctant to disclose outbreaks, and a hushed panic is playing out. 
A smartphone app in China called Study the Great Nation is becoming 
Users earn points by staying current on news about Mr. Xi. More than 100 million people have registered as users since its release this year, according to the state news media. That wide adoption stems, at least in part, from coercion.
On a monthlong trip in Honduras, a Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist and a photographer explored the rampant corruption and gang violence that is leading thousands of women to seek asylum in the U.S. Our Opinion section 
The country is one of the world’s deadliest for women. Domestic murders are common, and many women are killed by drug cartels and gangs, often in gruesome ways intended to spread terror. Nine out of 10 murders of women never go to court or result in a sentence.
The housing market has cooled, and a sense of pessimism colors conversations about the economy in Australia, especially among the young. And that can seem strange, since the country is nearing 28 years without a recession. 
Our Upshot columnist, pondering the U.S.’s approach of 10 recession-free years, visited Australia to see whether it had 
In 1981, a lawmaker strolled into India’s upper house wearing 
Across India, onions are among the few ingredients used in almost every dish, alongside salt and potatoes, making them
Governments can fall when 
Such factors contributed to the demise of Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s government in 2014.
In this year’s election, though, low prices are the problem. Onion and 
Both the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Congress Party are 
In 
We also have advise about how to deal with jerks, 
Latin American ministers are descending on Quito, Ecuador’s capital, today, to discuss Venezuela’s migration crisis.
The choice of location raises a question: When problems erupt on the continent, is there a dominant city where they’re hammered out?
Not exactly.
The city with the largest population is Mexico’s capital. The regional finance capital is Panama City. Brasilia is the capital of Brazil, which has the continent’s biggest economy. Latin America’s exiles — from the Cubans to the Venezuelans themselves — head north to Miami, where Spanish is often more commonly spoken than English.
A peace agreement with Colombia’s rebels was even hammered out in Havana, a capital which had longstanding ties to both the rebels and the Colombian government.
While other parts of the world have centers of gravity — think of Beijing, Brussels, Washington — Latin America is still searching for its own.
That’s it for this briefing, the second in our new format. We’d love to hear your thoughts at 
— Penn
 