
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering the potential elimination of a 
The British Parliament voted to take a no-deal Brexit option off the table, in what has been a sobering week for Prime Minister Boris Johnson. That bill now goes to the House of Lords.
Then lawmakers rejected Mr. Johnson’s request for a snap election — at least until the no-deal measure becomes law and there is no threat of a clear majority reversing this week’s actions
Announcing his new cabinet, Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte of Italy 
In his new coalition, the Five Star Movement is flanked by the center-left Democratic Party — sworn enemies turned unlikely bedfellows — as well as the small, left-leaning Free and Equal party.
The government is set to be formally sworn in this morning, and must face a confidence vote, expected later this week, which is seen as a formality.
The announcement on Wednesday by the territory’s leader, Carrie Lam, that the government would formally withdraw a contentious extradition bill was 
Leading architects have denounced a 600 million euro plan for Europe’s largest train station, calling the designs that would turn it into a glassy, mammoth, restaurant-filled shopping mall 
While the station has been criticized as dark and dysfunctional, some critics argue that the increased size and forced routing through shops and restaurants, much like airports route passengers through duty-free shops, increase travel time and hassle. 
And our tech adviser shows how easy it is to 
When Carrie Lam, Hong Kong’s chief executive, released a major announcement on Wednesday, she made the video statement 
That’s the norm in the territory — at least for now.
Dozens of languages are spoken by Hong Kong’s richly mixed population, but most are not official. For most of the 156 years of British colonial rule, English was the only sanctioned language. In 1974, Chinese was added. But which?
There are 
But Mandarin, China’s national language, is growing. Migration from the mainland surged following Britain’s handover in 1997, and Mandarin is now a language of instruction in many schools and all but mandatory in many jobs.
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Melina