
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning,
We start today with new intelligence on 
The White House’s 
The photos raised fears that Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps would fire the missiles at U.S. naval ships. It is a different kind of threat than the U.S. has previously seen from Iran, according to three American officials. 
Gov. Kay Ivey of Alabama signed the nation’s most restrictive abortion law, which 
The law will go into effect in six months at the earliest. Lower courts will almost certainly block it, so attention is turning to the Supreme Court. Activists hope the law will force a challenge to the nationwide right to an abortion. 
The measure threatens doctors with nearly a century in prison for terminating a pregnancy unless the woman’s life is in serious danger.
The White House is delaying for six months a decision on 
The Treasury secretary also announced that the U.S., Mexico and Canada were nearing a deal on metal tariffs. The developments reflect the administration’s reassessment of aspects of its tariff strategy as it focuses on the all-encompassing trade war with China.
Trade friction with China continues to rise. President Trump moved to 
The week of June 3 could be an important one for Brexit.
It’s when a fourth — and almost certainly final — vote on a plan to leave the European Union is 
She is promising to bring Parliament an improved piece of legislation that she hopes will be more attractive to opposition lawmakers.
That week is also when President Trump is set to make a state visit to Britain.
Cannabidiol is a molecule derived from the cannabis plant, and CBD-infused products that promise vague but powerful benefits seem to be everywhere in the U.S.
Plenty of legitimate research is being done on CBD, and many scientists are excited about its possibilities. The Times Magazine looks at how, in this unusual moment, it has 
And we have guidance to help you make your home a calming, 
This Sunday, HBO will show the final episode of “Game of Thrones” to audiences in more than 170 countries.
While some viewers live in fear of running across a spoiler, others embrace the idea of 
In a 2011 study, psychologists at the University of California, San Diego, 
Subjects preferred the advance spoilers. 
However, another study found that the medium mattered: People 
Then there’s anecdotal evidence. The Times’s Jenna Wortham got over having the “Game of Thrones” episode known as “The Red Wedding” ruined, and now relies on spoilers as 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Melina