
LONDON — On the day Britain was supposed to extract itself from the European Union, Prime Minister Theresa May suffered a third crushing defeat on her exit plan, effectively setting the Brexit process back to the beginning almost three years after Britons voted to leave.
And as routine as defeat has become for Mrs. May, Friday’s vote also underscored Parliament’s failure to find a way out of Europe.
Now another deadline for departure is looming, with no clear way forward, raising fears that the country is moving closer to an economically damaging, potentially disastrous exit from the European Union without a deal.
By choosing a symbolic day for the vote, Mrs. May hoped to whittle down opposition among pro-Brexit lawmakers to her unloved solution on a deeply divisive issue.
transcript
From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.”
Today, after months of trying and failing to put forward a deal for how the U.K. could leave the European Union, Theresa May had one final thing to offer: herself.
It’s Monday, April 1.
Thank you for calling the London office of The New York Times.
Hello?
Oh, hello. How are you, Ellen?
I’m great.
I’m so sorry that we’ve had technical difficulties this morning.
Not to worry.
It wouldn’t be “The Daily” if we didn’t have a little technical difficulty. O.K., so here we go, Ellen. Tell me when you are ready.
Ready.
O.K. Ellen Barry is a Times correspondent in London.
So last Wednesday, in the middle of the day, Theresa May called her party members to Committee Room 14, which is a big committee room somewhere in the bowels of Westminster Palace. It was quite unclear what this was about. There was loads of speculation that she would perhaps fire her chief negotiator for Brexit, who is widely despised by right-wingers in her party.
The world’s cameras are trained on the British Parliament, waiting for a Brexit breakthrough. For many, the workings of this House appear increasingly mystifying. But after months of Brexit paralysis, could things be starting to move?
So at five o’clock, Conservative lawmakers began crowding into this room. And it was, by all accounts, stifling and completely packed. The minister for international development couldn’t even get in there and was watching through the keyhole. And it is traditional in these gatherings that when the prime minister comes in, people bang on the tables with their hands. It’s kind of like a tribal drumbeat.
And so then, the room went silent. The door closed. The room went silent. And what was said in there was said only to each other. But meetings like this leak like sieves. And —
In a closed meeting with conservative M.P.s, Theresa May said she’s prepared to make the ultimate move.
Gradually, the outside world came to know that the thing that she was prepared to offer in exchange for their votes was herself.
She concluded by asking everyone in the room to back her deal to allow for a smooth and orderly Brexit.
She basically said, I’ll make you a deal. If you vote for this, if you vote for the withdrawal agreement and get it through, then I will step down as prime minister.
Brexit for my head.
Basically.
Ellen, how did all of this happen? How did Theresa may end up being at the center of Brexit?
So the funny thing is that Brexit was never Theresa May’s issue. She kind of kept her head down, but she was a Remainer. She voted to stay inside the European Union and really just stayed out of the whole public debate over Brexit, to a great extent. And it was really somewhat by accident that she became prime minister.
David Cameron is back in Downing Street, a happy man after a surprise election victory. Against most predictions, his party has won a slim but outright majority.
It started with David Cameron, who was basically hoping to stop a hemorrhage of M.P.s from switching sides and going to UKIP, which was the Brexit party.
We will give the British people a referendum with a very simple in or out choice.
And he made a gamble.
To stay in the European Union on these new terms or to come out altogether. It is time for the British people to have their say. It is time for us to settle this question about Britain and Europe.
It was essentially to kind of assuage the hard right of his party. He thought he could essentially throw them a bone and get them onside. And he did so expecting that the country would vote to remain. And it just came as a staggering surprise on June 23rd of 2016 when the results came out. And it was 52 to 48 percent for leaving the European Union.
The British people have voted to leave the European Union. And their will must be respected.
And because David Cameron had been squarely opposed to leaving the European Union, he then announced that he was going to step down as prime minister, rather than lead the country through the process of leaving.
I think the country requires fresh leadership to take it in this direction. I will do everything I can as prime minister to steady the ship over the coming weeks and months. But I do not think it would be right for me to try to be the captain that steers our country to its next destination.
So why does Theresa May end up taking his place, if she had been a Remainer — if she’d been opposed to Brexit?
So Theresa May ended up taking his place because the men who were the obvious front-runners to be his successors took each other out in the political fistfight that followed. And I suppose she was appealing in a sense that she was quite different from all of those top Tory men. There’s a phrase they use at Balliol College, which is “the tranquil assurance of effortless superiority.”
Some people would say, sometimes, life as a vicar’s daughter isn’t — it can have its ups and downs.
Theresa May is nothing like that — I mean, not on any level.
But I feel hugely privileged, actually, in the childhood that I had.
She was the daughter of a small-town vicar, and the granddaughter of two lady’s maids, and the great-granddaughter of a butler. So she came from a family with a really long sense of public service and duty.
What’s the naughtiest thing you ever did?
Oh, goodness me. Well, I suppose, gosh. Do you know? I’m not quite sure.
There must have been a moment.
Well, nobody’s ever perfectly behaved, are they? I have to confess when me and my friends used to run through the fields of wheat, the farmers weren’t too pleased about that.
So she seemed like one of the grown-ups in the room, at the time. Someone who could potentially bring the country back together after an incredibly difficult and divisive referendum campaign.
So the men who create Brexit essentially self-immolate. And the party turns to Theresa May.
Yes. She cast herself as someone who was trying to do the least damage. I mean, instead of projecting enthusiasm about the mission of Brexit, she tended to express a sense of duty that she had taken on the job. She was going to finish the job.
We are living through an important moment in our country’s history. Following the referendum, we face a time of great national change. And I know, because we are Great Britain, that we will rise to the challenge.
But it didn’t take long for her to start making serious blunders around Brexit, because it turned out that she is one of the worst retail politicians that Britain has ever seen.
I know that the public sector has had to carry a heavy burden. The private sector has played its part, too. But with government, businesses and the public sector working together, we have bounced back.
She is wooden. She is unable to speak off-script. She cannot generate warmth. She seems congenitally unable to generate warmth.
Brexit means Brexit. And we are going to make a success of it.
She went out on the stump and repeated, kind of robotically —
Brexit means Brexit.
— a set of phrases that she had been briefed on.
Because Brexit means Brexit.
And she earned the nickname the “Maybot,” because she was seemingly unable to come up with different answers, even when the same question was asked her repeatedly.
Well, the reason I’ve been saying Brexit means Brexit is precisely because it does. And to be very clear —
This is what history looks like. The official letter formally starting the process of Britain leaving the European Union is delivered.
So she made a series of very significant blunders that year. One of them, maybe the most important one, is that she triggered Article 50.
The Article 50 process is now underway. And in accordance with the wishes of the British people, the United Kingdom is leaving the European Union.
Which started the clock ticking towards an end date — an exit date of March 29.
This is an historic moment, from which there can be no turning back. Britain is leaving the European Union. We are going to make our own decisions and our own laws.
As soon as she started that, the E.U. had an enormous advantage in the negotiations.
This is a decisive step, which enables us to move on and finalize the deal in the days ahead. These decisions were not taken lightly. But I believe it is a decision that is firmly in the national interest.
She also, as a general matter, played her cards incredibly close to her vest throughout the negotiation. So the country really didn’t know where she was going with this process until quite late last year, when she shared her withdrawal agreement with the country.
When you strip away the detail, the choice before us is clear: this deal, which delivers on the vote of the referendum, which brings about control of our money, laws and borders, ends free movement, protects jobs, security and our union, or leave with no deal, or no Brexit at all.
And it went over like a lead balloon.
And why was that?
Well, she laid out a series of red lines that were, in fact, very hard Brexit red lines. No one knew, up until that point, that she was planning to exit the customs union and the single market.
And because we will no longer be members of the single market, we will not be required to contribute huge sums to the E.U. budget. The days of Britain making vast contributions to the European Union every year will end.
And why is that, ultimately, a blunder?
Well, they had no solution for what would turn out to be the fatal problem with that plan, which is Britain is not an island. There is a land border between the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland. And you cannot just walk away from the customs union without creating some kind of a border. And of course, that open border between Northern Ireland and the Republic had been the subject of a 30-year armed struggle and a hard-fought peace agreement. So to gloss over it was not looking at the problem, which was going to block this thing at the end.
The choices before us were difficult, particularly in relation to the Northern Ireland backstop.
But the way she squared the circle with the Irish border is to create something called the backstop. And what the backstop means is that the entire of the U.K. would remain in the customs union until such a time that there is a solution to the border problem, which could easily be never. And this is why she lost her Brexiteers. Because they said, well, this is just a way for us to stay in the European Union, subject to their regulations, indefinitely, because there is no provision for the United Kingdom leaving the backstop unilaterally. So they just saw themselves as being stuck at the mercy of Europe indefinitely.
Wow, that’s the first time I understood the backstop. Thank you.
The fact is that her deal isn’t really a deal. Because what it actually does is postpone everything. It doesn’t settle anything. It actually guarantees more uncertainty, which is terrible for business. And it’s not even Brexit.
It is not Brexit at all. And they’re pretending that it is.
So what she begins to do is try to persuade the country to compromise. But it is extremely late in the game. And she hasn’t laid the groundwork for a compromise. Much of her energy went to keeping the hardliners onside. And as soon as she published her withdrawal agreement, she lost them.
Theresa May still believes there’s a battle to be won in Brussels. A growing number of British M.P.s don’t. The view from Europe is of a nation increasingly at odds with itself.
And how does may respond to all these condemnations and men who are essentially beating her up?
This is such an irritating, maddening group of people that — I don’t know. A lot of Britons, during this period, their heart went out to her. Because any normal person would just throw their hands up and walk away from this nightmare of a job. But she’d just wake up in the morning and dust herself off and set aside her personal feelings and say —
I believe with every fiber of my being that the course I have set out is the right one for our country and all our people.
— again and again —
From the very beginning, I have known what I wanted to deliver for the British people to honor their vote in the referendum.
— I have committed to delivering Brexit to the British people.
The British people just want us to get on with it. They are looking to the Conservative Party to deliver — to deliver a Brexit that works for the whole U.K.
And that’s what I’m going to do.
I’m going to do my job of getting the best deal for Britain. I’m going to do my job of getting a deal that is in the national interest.
She stuck with it, and she stuck with it. And she seemed unwilling to give up.
And am I going to see this through? Yes.
Until last week.
We’ll be right back.
So bring us back to this Committee Room number 14. What do we know about what Theresa May said as she offered her own head to members of the Conservative Party as this final gesture?
This was the way it was described by George Freeman, who was her former policy adviser. “She, with tears not far from her eyes, said, ‘I promised I would deliver the Brexit agreement.’” She said, “I’ve made many mistakes. I’m only human. I beg you, colleagues, vote for the withdrawal agreement. And I will go.” He said there was silence in the room. And it was incredibly sad.
After she finished speaking in this committee room, there were several M.P.s who were hardline, holdout Brexiteers who got up and said, publicly, that they were now going to back her deal.
Wow, so this seems to be working?
Yes. For the next 45 minutes to an hour, journalists were on Twitter just counting the number of Brexiteers that were changing sides. And you had people like Boris Johnson, who — I think he had compared her deal to a suicide vest at one point. This is what he said to The Daily Telegraph: “I feel very, very sorry. And though it fills me with pain, I’m going to have to support this thing.” So he flipped sides. Jacob Rees-Mogg, another Brexiteer bannerman, tweeted out that “half a loaf is better than no bread.” In other words, he was willing to give up some of his Brexiteer credibility to get behind Theresa May and give her his vote. And you just began to see this happening again and again. They were flipping. And I think it got up to something like 30 or 40 people were indicating that they were changing sides. And it looked, somehow, that at this last moment, in this last Hail Mary pass that she had thrown by offering her resignation, she might have just gotten it over the line.
Order. Order.
But sometime after 3 o’clock on Friday, March 29 —
The ayes to the right, 286. The noes to the left, 344. So the noes have it. The noes have it.
Parliament rejected her withdrawal agreement for the third time by a vote of 344 to 286.
So she just fell short?
Yeah, she fell short.
Point of order. The prime minister.
Point of order, Mr. Speaker. Mr. Speaker, I think it should be a matter of profound regret to every member of this House that, once again, we have been unable to support leaving the European Union in orderly fashion. The implications of the House’s decision are grave.
So this offer to give up her own prime ministership in exchange for Brexit — essentially, Parliament said to her, not even that is enough.
It wasn’t enough.
Good evening from Westminster. If the prime minister had had her way, the United Kingdom would be leaving the E.U. in one hour’s time. Today should have been Brexit Day. That’s what Theresa May had promised. But instead, she —
And this is the absurd trap that we’ve all been in — that here is an impossible task that doesn’t get done and doesn’t get done. And yet nothing changes. There’s no off-ramp. And so Brexit still isn’t done. And Theresa May’s still the person in charge of it. You imagine that she was ready to walk away. And you could see it on her face. She looked like a different person. She looked younger. She looked — I don’t know. She just didn’t look strained anymore. But actually, she’s not free. It’s not done. And she’s going to have to start all over again, in the morning.
Ellen, thank you very much. We appreciate it.
Thank you.
Here’s what else you need to know, today.
I’ve ended payments to Guatemala, to Honduras and to El Salvador. No money goes there anymore.
Over the weekend, the Trump Administration said it would drastically cut financial aid to three Central American countries in retaliation for what he said was their failure to stop the flow of migrants to the U.S. border.
We were paying them tremendous amounts of money. And we’re not paying them anymore. Because they haven’t done a thing for us.
The $500 million in aid to El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras was originally designed to address the root cause of migration — violence, lack of jobs and poverty. And its elimination could ultimately backfire, triggering even more migration to the U.S. And New York will become the first city in the country to charge drivers for using its streets, in an attempt to reduce congestion and raise money to repair its subway system.
You have to get fewer cars driving into Manhattan. The traffic is so bad. I can’t tell you how many days, myself, I just get out of the car and walk. Because it’s so much faster.
Under a plan adopted by Governor Andrew Cuomo and the state legislature on Sunday, drivers will be charged a fee of at least $10 to drive below 60th Street in Manhattan.
Buses in Manhattan, I think the average is now down to, like, four miles per hour.
The fees, known as congestion pricing, are already in use in London, Stockholm and Singapore, where they have cut both traffic and air pollution. In New York, they are expected to raise $1 billion a year for the city’s subway system.
And it’s a little bit of a chicken and an egg. You need a viable, functioning mass transit system so people get out of their cars and feel comfortable taking the mass transit system. And that’s the point behind congestion pricing.
That’s it for “The Daily.” I’m Michael Barbaro. See you tomorrow.
But despite asking Parliament to vote on only half of her deal — the immediate divorce terms — Mrs. May’s gamble failed.
On Monday, it will be Parliament’s turn again. Lawmakers will try to tighten their grip over the process, with the aim of mustering a majority for an alternative path, and then challenging Mrs. May to make it work.
“The implications of the House’s decision are grave,” said Mrs. May, after her loss by the emphatic margin of 58 votes. “I fear we are reaching the limits of this process in this House.”
That was taken as a hint that she is contemplating a general election that would shake up the composition of the House of Commons. But Mrs. May refused to be more specific.
Mrs. May’s plan would eventually take Britain out of Europe’s main economic structures but give it control over immigration from continental Europe. Brexit hard-liners fear her plan could still keep Britain too closely tied to the bloc, while pro-European critics prefer closer, long-term trading links with Europe, or no Brexit at all.
If Parliament remains deadlocked next week, Britain will face a stark choice: either run headlong into a no-deal Brexit on the new deadline of April 12, or return to Brussels to request another extension from the bloc’s leaders.
But as European leaders made clear two weeks ago, the government will have to put forth a strong reason for the delay — presumably time to hold either a general election or, less likely, a second public vote on Brexit, as the process of leaving the European Union is known.
In something of a last-ditch effort, the prime minister this week had promised lawmakers that she would step down if her plan were approved, giving Conservatives a chance to choose a leader more to their liking to oversee the next round of negotiations.
But with her deal thwarted again, there was no sign she intended to go anywhere.
In a statement, the European Commission, the bloc’s executive body, warned that “a ‘no deal’ scenario is now a likely scenario.” Donald Tusk, the president of the European Council, the group of the bloc’s leaders, called a council meeting on April 10, two days before the next Brexit deadline.
The opposition Labour leader, Jeremy Corbyn, called on lawmakers to take over the process.
“On Monday, this House has the chance, and I say to all members, the responsibility, to find a majority for a better deal for all the people of this country,” he said.
On Friday Parliament voted on the part of Mrs. May’s plan that covers the nuts and bolts of the withdrawal, including the divorce payment; the rights of the bloc’s citizens living in Britain; and the infamous Irish “backstop,” or how the border between Ireland, part of the European Union, and Northern Ireland, part of the United Kingdom, will be kept open.
Lawmakers did not vote on the other half of her deal, a nonbinding “political declaration” about future ties with the bloc.
For a while it seemed as if Mrs. May’s choreographing of the vote to turn up the pressure on recalcitrant members of Parliament might work.
Throughout the day, one prominent Tory Brexiteer after another professed support for a plan that some of them had said would turn Britain into a slave or vassal state.
Among them was Dominic Raab, a former lead Brexit negotiator for the government and one of the most hard-line Conservative supporters of withdrawal.
Writing on Twitter, Boris Johnson, a former foreign secretary who had been perhaps the most vocal critic of Mrs. May’s proposal, said he would support it, although it was “very painful to vote for this deal.”
But the prime minister’s putative allies in the Democratic Unionist Party of Northern Ireland, whose opinion many pro-Brexit Tories considered determinative, resisted Mrs. May’s entreaties to the end.
Their fear was that the deal would leave Northern Ireland in regulatory alignment with the European Union and cleaved from the rest of the United Kingdom.
In the end, Mrs. May lost by 344 votes to 286, a slightly more respectable total than the two previous rejections, of 230 and 149 votes, but still a big margin.
Mrs. May had hoped the vote would at least show that she was close to winning over Parliament. Instead it underscored the fact that nothing has been resolved two years after a formal exit process began amid much fanfare, only to descend into a shambles.
For Brexit supporters, March 29 was, once upon a time, supposed to be a big party, with a celebration at 11 p.m.
Some wanted Big Ben, 
So for the pro-Brexit activists who hollered “Shame on you!” in Parliament Square on Friday, Parliament’s vote represented no less than the undoing of British democracy.
“I dearly wish we could be toasting Britain’s freedom with Champagne at 11 p.m. on Friday, just as we’d planned,” said Allison Pearson, a columnist for the stridently pro-Brexit Daily Telegraph.
“Under the circumstances, half a glass of Tizer and Nurofen is more like it,” she said, referring to a British soft drink and a painkiller.
Among pro-Europeans, many of whom turned out in the hundreds of thousands for a march in London last weekend, the vote was the clearest sign yet that lawmakers were heeding a shift in public opinion toward remaining in the Europe Union and seizing control from an unyielding prime minister.
On Twitter, pro-Europeans had a “non-Brexit” celebration. “Off to Glasgow to celebrate non-
“Happy Brexit day everyone!,” 
For businesses, Friday’s vote was a sobering moment as most of them have no idea what tariffs could apply to imports and exports next month.
There are no good options left for Mrs. May. To hold another vote on her deal, she needs the permission of the Speaker of the House of Commons, John Bercow, who has warned her that she cannot hold a vote on something that has already been rejected.
She could ask the European Union for a longer extension, blaming her political opponents for keeping Britain in the bloc by opposing her deal. But that would mean going back on a central pledge to end ties quickly.
And if she were to try to proceed with a no-deal Brexit, Parliament would surely try to stop her, as a clear majority of lawmakers oppose that outcome.
As with so much about Brexit, though, how such a move would work in practice remains unclear.