
The Irish backstop, a portion of the agreement for Britain’s planned withdrawal from the European Union, has been a near constant point of tension since the country began the Brexit process.
But the two players most affected by the potential outcome of this particular element of the exit — Ireland, an independent nation that will remain a part of the European Union after Britain’s exit; and Northern Ireland, a region that is part of the United Kingdom and is set to leave the bloc — often get left out of the conversation.
So what do Ireland and Northern Ireland want as Britain heads toward the next Brexit deadline? And can both be satisfied?
Ireland and Northern Ireland have recently enjoyed cooperation across their shared border, which for decades had been a pressure point in sectarian struggles 
A 1998 peace accord known as the Good Friday Agreement mostly ended the conflict between Republicans, usually Roman Catholics, who believed that the six counties of the north should be part of a united Ireland; and historically dominant Unionists, largely Protestants, who wanted Northern Ireland to remain part of the United Kingdom.
In the years since the peace accord, the shared economy of the European Union made way for free trade and easy movement across a boundary that is now 
The backstop is a number of temporary measures that would be put in place until Britain and the European Union reach a long-term trade agreement that would obviate the 
Under those measures, Britain would stay in the European customs union (not charging tariffs on European products) and Northern Ireland would follow many rules of the single market (obeying many European product and food standards, for example).
For unionists, that is virtually an existential threat, because the measures would bind Northern Ireland more tightly to European rules than they would the rest of the United Kingdom, which they fear would lead ultimately to unification with the South.
Leo Varadkar, the taoiseach of Ireland, as the prime minister is known, has said that the backstop is an essential part of any withdrawal agreement.
On Tuesday, Mr. Varadkar 
They are the foundation “on which Ireland’s economic model, our jobs and prosperity have been based for many decades now,” Mr. Varadkar said.
Members of the Democratic Unionist Party, or D.U.P., oppose any language in the Brexit deal that suggests a special status for Northern Ireland, arguing that the designation could threaten to break up the United Kingdom.
But the objectives of Northern Ireland as a whole are a bit more opaque, made more complicated by the fact that the region has been without a government for two years. While Northern Ireland is part of the United Kingdom, it has its own legislature in Stormont, Belfast.
As a result of the same Good Friday agreement that brokered peace in Northern Ireland, the government must be a power-sharing coalition between two parties. But two years ago, a disagreement between the two governing parties at the time — the D.U.P. and the republican Sinn Fein party — led to 
A new government is yet to be formed. While the D.U.P. has been able to exert influence in London as part of Prime Minister Theresa May’s governing coalition, the broader interests of the region have not always been represented.
Sinn Fein lawmakers, who refuse to take their seats in the British Parliament, now worry that a no-deal Brexit would mean Northern Ireland’s decisions end up being made entirely in London in a return of the “direct rule” that the Good Friday agreement was intended to end. Britain’s top civil servant on 
Complicating matters is the fact that a majority of Northern Irish voters — 55.8 percent — 
It’s not looking likely.
Sammy Wilson, a D.U.P. member of Parliament, recently said that even if Mrs. May brought her deal back 1,000 times, “
Senior members of Mrs. May’s Conservative party were said to be dangling something called a ‘‘Stormont lock’’ to win the backing of unionists. That would be a domestic law saying that, if Northern Ireland had to adjust its rules to conform to European standards, then so would the rest of the United Kingdom.
But unionist leaders sounded unconvinced. They cautioned that an international treaty with a backstop — the Brexit deal — would take precedence over domestic measures trying to avoid one.