
LONDON — One thing that we have learned about Prime Minister Theresa May over the last two years: She does not give up. Even when her task seems impossible, when she fails on the most public stage imaginable, when she is sick, and tired, and subjected to another round of jeers and sneers from the boys’ club at Westminster. Every morning she gets up, dusts herself off, and gets on with the job.
For that reason, Britain paused for a moment on Wednesday evening, when word emerged from inside a committee room: 
She did so in a very Theresa May-ish way, giving the haters what they wanted — her head on a platter — but only at the cost of a titanic concession. Standing before her fellow Conservative lawmakers in Westminster’s Committee Room 14, she offered Tory rebels herself in exchange for approving the withdrawal agreement she had negotiated for 
The reserves of good will toward her in Parliament are nearly exhausted, but the sight of this proud, rigid woman admitting that she could not finish the job, giving up her hopes of ever being remembered as anything but Brexit roadkill, was a somber one. It was the last card she had to play.
In the hours that followed, shreds of color began to emerge from the committee room.
“She — with tears not far from her eyes — said, ‘I promised I would deliver the Brexit agreement,’ ” her former policy adviser, George Freeman, told the BBC. She went on, he said, to say, “I have made many mistakes. I am only human. I beg you, colleagues, vote for the withdrawal agreement and I will go.”
He said, “There was silence in the room and it was incredibly sad.”
Committee Room 14 was stifling, so overcrowded that, according to one of the journalists present, 
In remarks released to the public, Mrs. May seemed to acknowledge that she, socially awkward and hard-pressed to forge alliances, had been a strange fit for political life, noting, a bit tartly, “I don’t tour the bars and engage in the gossip.”
The basics of Brexit, the troubled plan for Britain to quit the European Union.
For a brief period that followed, people said nice things about her.
Jacob Rees-Mogg, a leader of 
Mrs. May appeared to have an unusual lightness to her all day, delivering one of her best performances as she took questions during her weekly appearance in the House of Commons. Her proffered resignation allowed weeks of pent-up tension to drain away, said Simon Clarke, a Brexiteer lawmaker, speaking to journalists in the corridor.
“Weirdly, I think there was a sense of relief,” Mr. Clarke said. “From all of us. That’s often what you see at the end.”
Rory Stewart, the justice minister, said after the meeting that Mrs. May had offered her resignation as she had governed.
“Most politicians are a bit vain, but you don’t get that sense with her,” he said. “With her, you get a sense of somebody who is absolutely committed to getting something done, and is willing to do anything to get it there.”
What remained to be seen was whether, like a chess player giving up her queen, she had managed to win the game on her last move. Miraculously, amazingly, Tory Brexiteers began to flip in her favor. Several rose to their feet in the committee room when she finished speaking. Journalists were keeping count as the hard-line group of Tory rebels sheared in half, defecting one by one.
Mr. Rees-Mogg, one of the standard bearers of the Brexiteer faction, stood down, announcing that “half a loaf is better than no bread.” Boris Johnson, the former foreign secretary, who at one point had compared Mrs. May’s deal to a suicide vest, told The Daily Telegraph that, “I feel very, very sorry and though it fills me with pain, I’m going to have to support this thing.”
And indeed, it seemed for nearly an hour that Mrs. May might have found a way to win. But then there was a rumbling from Committee Room 10, where the holdouts from Mr. Rees-Mogg’s group had gathered. His lieutenant, Steve Baker, professed himself “consumed with a ferocious rage” over the capitulation of his Brexiteer comrades.
“I could tear this place down and bulldoze it into the river,” he said. This was not good news for Mrs. May. Then it got worse. The Democratic Unionist Party of Northern Ireland, which holds just 10 seats of the 650 in Parliament but 
And so Mrs. May began her day on Thursday as she has begun so many days — in defeat, but still in a job. The newspapers were already running canned retrospectives of her legacy. “May Falls on Her Sword,” The Telegraph announced. The Sun exulted “Finally, It’s Therexit.” Already, the race to succeed her was in full gear.
The question is whether her sacrifice means anything at all. For a third time, Mrs. May’s deal could come for a vote, possibly on Friday, yet, for now, it still appears short of the support needed for passage.
If not, the job of delivering Brexit will remain unfinished, and the person in charge will still be Theresa May.