
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering down-to-the-wire 
E.U. officials in Brussels — including the European Council president, Donald Tusk — declared on Wednesday that the foundations of a withdrawal agreement with Britain were “ready.”
But London projected a different image of the Brexit talks, with Britain’s prime minister, Boris Johnson, describing the goal as being “shrouded in mist.” 
The 
Mr. Johnson spent much of Wednesday trying to rally 10 lawmakers from Northern Ireland’s Democratic Unionist Party, who worry about what a post-Brexit border with Ireland would look like.
Top diplomats’ testimony behind closed doors on Capitol Hill this week seems to have a common thread: that President Trump sidelined experts in the State Department to pursue his own agenda on Ukraine. 
Taken together, 
On Wednesday, President Trump said the fighting that has erupted in northern Syria between Turkey and America’s Kurdish allies has “nothing to do with us.”
“The Kurds know how to fight, and, as I said, they’re not angels,” he said, 
But the operation has 
A Chinese company with close ties to the Communist Party signed a secretive deal last month that gives it exclusive development rights for the entire island of Tulagi and its surroundings — to the shock of its population of a little over 1,000.
The island served as a South Pacific headquarters for Britain and then Japan before it was won back by Allied forces in World War II. Now, critics worry that Beijing could use it to 
But the document also allows for “a special economic zone or any other industry that is suitable for any development.”
President Rodrigo Duterte refers to journalists as “spies,” “vultures” and “lowlifes.” His wish, he has said, is to “kill journalism” in the Philippines. Maria Ressa, above, the editor of the independent news site Rappler, has incurred much of the president’s wrath, becoming the target of almost a dozen civil and criminal cases in the past year and a half. 
And we have five tips on 
The Korean Central News Agency is North Korea’s media producer, controller and disseminator. 
One of its main roles is keeping the country’s 25 million people informed of exactly what the totalitarian leadership wants them to know.
It also portrays the North as powerful, well-regarded and prosperous, while insulting and threatening perceived enemies in sometimes bizarre wording involving 
And it showcases no end of heroic images of the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, 
KCNA was founded in 1946, the year after Korea was divided along the 38th parallel at the end of World War II. U.S. forces occupied what became South Korea, and Soviet forces in what became the North.
The Soviets’ propaganda machine, well practiced at lionizing Joseph Stalin, 
KCNA followed the model and has been instrumental in creating 
That’s it for this briefing. We hope your day is full of “noble glitters.”
— Alisha