
Good morning. 
As the president declared victory in the wake of the Mueller report, he and Republican allies vowed to 
He called his adversaries “treasonous” and said they should be investigated. “Those people will certainly be looked at,” he said. Many of his allies agreed, while Democrats weighed whether to shift their focus entirely.
Mr. Trump’s re-election campaign also lobbied television networks to blackball Democrats who advanced the collusion theory.
Britain’s Parliament took control on Monday of the government’s efforts to leave the European Union, inflicting on Prime Minister Theresa May 
After months of deadlock, lawmakers passed an amendment giving themselves the power to vote on alternatives to the government’s Brexit plan. Members of Mrs. May’s cabinet openly discussed contradictory Brexit policies, and rumors swirled of a plot to replace her. 
Britain will remain in the E.U. at least until April 12. What happens after that is anyone’s guess.
A family that has funded some of the world’s most renowned art institutions is being turned away by many of those museums 
Members of the Sackler family own Purdue Pharma
Several museums, including the Tate museums in London and the Guggenheim in New York, have rejected any future gifts, concluding that some family members’ ties to the opioid crisis outweighed the benefits of their six- and sometimes seven-figure checks.
The Danish capital wants to 
If it manages the remarkable feat, it will be a model for other urban governments on a warming planet. It would require changing how people get around, how they heat their homes and what they do with their trash. 
Climate change is a top voter issue among Danes. Mayor Frank Jensen of Copenhagen, a city of 624,000, said that city leaders, more than national politicians, felt pressure to act. “We are directly responsible for our cities and our citizens,” he said.
Today is the 40th anniversary of 
The landmark accords were 
The retreat as a vacation spot captured the affection of 
President Trump goes to his clubs in Palm Beach, Fla., and Bedminster, N.J., rather than Camp David. “It’s nice. You’d like it,” Mr. Trump 
Still, the Navy maintains Camp David as an active military base, ready for a president who will once again routinely make the 30-minute helicopter ride from the White House.