
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering 
British lawmakers passed a measure that 
The move, which received stronger support than expected, set up a clash between Parliament and Boris Johnson, who is expected to succeed Prime Minister Theresa May next week. Mr. Johnson has entertained the idea of shutting down the legislature in the fall to ensure that, with or without a deal, Britain leaves the E.U. on Oct. 31.
The American military 
The news closely followed an announcement from 
While the two episodes escalate the conflict that has pitted Iran against some of its neighbors and the U.S., Iran’s foreign minister 
Since then, there have been attacks on tankers in the Strait of Hormuz, and Iran has exceeded the amount and the purity of the uranium it is permitted under the 2015 nuclear agreement.
President Emmanuel Macron of France 
The move was the latest sign that the era of fighting in space — disabling or even shooting down satellites on which warfare on Earth is increasingly dependent — was getting closer.
Nervous Republicans 
Mr. Trump responded by disavowing the behavior of his own supporters. He claimed he had tried to contain the chant, which was directed at Representative Ilhan Omar of Minnesota, a freshman Democrat who is Muslim.
Video of the event clearly contradicted that assertion.
Five decades ago tomorrow, Neil Armstrong stepped onto the powdery surface of the moon in humankind’s first ever journey from one world to another. Those bootprints “could outlast the race that made them,” 
To mark the anniversary of the Apollo 11 mission, The Times has produced 
And a growing number of theme parks, hotels and special attractions 
Events in New Zealand will honor him, including the premiere of an orchestral work 
Hillary and Norgay were the sole climbers from a Royal Geographic Expedition to reach the top of the world’s tallest peak, succeeding where 30 years of attempts had failed. 
The feat made the two men global celebrities. In the 1960s, Hillary founded 
Known back home as “Sir Ed,” Hillary became synonymous with qualities his countryfolk prized: humility and steely determination. In 2008, he received a rare state funeral, and in 1992, his face replaced Queen Elizabeth’s on 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— William