
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning. 
At least 49 people were killed in a 
A male in his late 20s has been charged with murder and will appear in a Christchurch court Saturday morning, the police said. Three other people have been taken into custody, but it is unclear if they were involved. 
The gunman broadcast a livestream on Facebook of part of the attack. The horrifying footage shows him arriving at a mosque and firing on people inside until they lay motionless in corners. 
Before the shooting, someone appearing to be the gunman 
After two long years of negotiations, lawmakers 
In a flurry of votes on several amendments, Parliament also rejected holding a second referendum on Brexit,
Without an approved deal, 
The Times obtained an 
A minute after departure, Captain Yared Getachew calmly reported a “flight control” problem, according to a person who reviewed air traffic communications. 
Three minutes in, in a panicky voice, he requested permission to return to the airport. For reasons that are unclear, the aircraft, a new Boeing 737 Max 8, appeared to have accelerated to speeds well beyond its safety limits. Air traffic controllers observed that it was going up and down by hundreds of feet.
Then the plane disappeared from radar, crashing and killing all 157 people on board. Because of similarities with a plane crash off Indonesia in October that involved the Boeing 737 Max 8, the model has been grounded worldwide.
Marian Kocner, a prominent Slovakian businessman, has been 
The journalist, Jan Kuciak, was fatally shot in his home in February 2018. His 
In charging Mr. Kocner with paying a hit man $80,000 to kill the journalist, the authorities in Slovakia hope to regain a measure of the public trust that has been shattered by the killings and by the rife corruption that Mr. Kuciak and other reporters were working to expose. Mr. Kocner, who is currently in jail awaiting trial on unrelated fraud charges, 
 
A reader this week asked to hear more about E. Barrett Prettyman, whose name is on the courthouse described 
The Virginia-born 
He was admired in judicial and governmental circles. Presidents Dwight Eisenhower and John F. Kennedy turned to him to resolve difficult legal issues. He overcame years of congressional resistance to effect changes in the D.C. court system.
The U.S. Courthouse, home to the court he served on, was 
His son, 