
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning. 
The E.U. gives its terms for 
Turning down terms requested by Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain, E.U. leaders on Thursday 
If she cannot persuade lawmakers to accept her plan, Mrs. May will get a shorter delay in exiting the E.U. — until April 12. Mrs. May accepted the terms. 
And Britain could stay in the bloc much longer if it decided it needs more time for a bigger rethink. If Britain were to get the longer delay, it would have to take part in European Parliament elections in May. 
While families were still mourning their loved ones killed off Indonesia in the Lion Air plane crash in October, they were herded into a hotel conference room and told to sign a document to receive a government-mandated compensation of 1.3 billion rupiah, about $91,600, for loss of life.
But the payment came with conditions. Many say they weren’t allowed time to study the document and didn’t know it included a clause 
Those conditions are now being questioned by legal experts. An Indonesian aviation act from 2011 specifies that heirs who receive government-mandated payments shouldn’t have limits on their right to sue the carrier or other entities involved.
Small countries, corporations and even wealthy individuals all have a new weapon at their disposal: 
This growing and barely governed world of digital combat has enabled governments to hack terrorist groups and drug cartels, but is also being used for more sinister impulses, like targeting activists and journalists, with the sophistication that was once the preserve of major world powers.
The F.B.I. is now investigating one of these firms, DarkMatter, after a former N.S.A. hacker working there grew concerned about its activities, a twist that reflects the murky new industry.
With the waters from Cyclone Idai starting to recede, those staggered in its wake were 
But there was good news. Waters were said to be retreating “quickly,” allowing recovery workers to reach communities that had been cut off. 
What do lichens and politics have in common?
As you may remember from chemistry class, a litmus test determines a solution’s relative acidity. But the phrase is also used metaphorically to refer to a character-defining political issue, and it has been popping up in coverage of the race for the Democratic presidential nomination.
The chemical test, in use since the Middle Ages, employs a dye derived from lichens to determine whether a solution is more acidic or alkaline.
The phrase, which developed its political connotation in the 20th century, appeared in The New York Times 
This year, “litmus test” has appeared in The Times to refer to 