
Good morning. 
After two long years of negotiations, lawmakers 
In a flurry of votes on several amendments, Parliament also rejected holding a second referendum on Brexit, effectively bringing the country back to square one, and turned down an attempt to seize control of the process from Prime Minister Theresa May.
Without an approved deal, 
With all of its 737 Max 8 planes now grounded around the world, the aircraft manufacturer has a difficult task ahead: 
The short-term costs of a software fix for the jet will probably be manageable. The bigger concern is whether Boeing can salvage confidence in the Max 8 model, the company’s best-selling jet that accounts for around $550 billion in future revenue.
Airlines that were using the planes have started demanding compensation for losses while the jets are out of service. It costs an estimated $1 million to lease a replacement jet for three months.
Passenger backlash might also force some airlines to turn to Boeing’s main rival, Airbus.
The country’s slowing economic growth, which has already rippled through factory floors and construction sites, is 
Educated, middle-class workers are now faced with job cuts and shrinking paychecks, indicating that the slump is broader than official numbers suggest and might be harder for the government to reverse.
The government’s usual tactics to resuscitate growth — unleashing a wave of loans or spending on infrastructure — won’t be much help for the service, financial and tech industries. Experts say the government will need to think of long-term policy reforms to get over this bump.
According to two people familiar with the matter, a grand jury subpoenaed records from at least two of more than 150 companies, including Amazon, Apple, Microsoft and Sony, that had deals with Facebook.
A reader this week asked to hear more about E. Barrett Prettyman, whose name is on the courthouse described 
The Virginia-born 
He was admired in judicial and governmental circles. Presidents Dwight Eisenhower and John Kennedy turned to him to resolve difficult legal issues. He overcame years of congressional resistance to effect changes in the D.C. court system.
The U.S. Courthouse, home to the court he served on, was 
P.S. His son, 