
Good morning. 
Britain’s Parliament looks for more 
Late Monday in Britain, lawmakers 
Chances of success appear minimal. None of the eight options on the table last week fetched a majority in Parliament.
Failure would leave the country with 
“It has amounted to a hollowing out of confidence in democracy itself.”
The president, emboldened by his attorney general’s public characterization of the Mueller report, has 
In recent weeks, Border Patrol facilities have been strained by an 
Russia has been 
The effort reflects President Vladimir Putin’s vision of returning Russia to its former glory and illustrates the country’s opportunistic strategy.
With about 900 million voters, almost 2,000 registered parties and five weeks of voting, the Indian elections can seem cacophonous. Even for this briefing writer, a diaspora Indian, they’re difficult to follow. The country’s myriad states, cultures and socioeconomic segments can’t be sliced into left or right, red or blue. It’s a kaleidoscope, and each prism illuminates a different aspect of the political spectrum.
But it is also heartening to watch this young democracy exercising a right denied to many in the surrounding region. And it is important: What happens in India can end up shifting the global economy and geopolitical landscape.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his right-wing Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party are seeking to retain power, facing a surging challenge by the opposition Congress Party. The briefing will be regularly unpacking aspects of the race. Voting unfolds from April 11 until May 19 and results are announced on May 23.
Keep in mind that the backdrop for the campaigning is a flammable mix of economic, religious and national security issues. 
Send us your feedback and any questions you have about the elections 
— 
The Modernist school (whose name inverts “Hausbau,” the German word for “house building”) was among the first to combine the teaching of crafts, design, architecture and fine art.
Walter Gropius, the architect who established the school in 1919 in Weimar, Germany, wrote in the Bauhaus’s program that the ultimate aim was the “unified work of art.”
And he enlisted masters of various artistic disciplines, such as Wassily Kandinsky, Laszlo Moholy-Nagy and Paul Klee, to join the Bauhaus faculty.
The school survived for little more than a decade before it was shut down in 1933 under pressure from the Nazis.
But 