
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering the déjà vu that is 
Prime Minister Boris Johnson, after suffering a stinging setback in Parliament on Saturday that forced him to delay the country’s withdrawal from the E.U., will 
He has a few things going for him, chief among them a divided opposition. The left-wing Labour Party, led by Jeremy Corbyn, has always wanted to keep closer economic ties to the E.U. and is now backing a second Brexit vote. But the Liberal Democrats, a smaller centrist force, are wary of ousting Mr. Johnson because they don’t want Mr. Corbyn as prime minister.
Still, the situation is fluid and the math is tight, so the votes this week could go either way. 
President Trump announced on Saturday that he would no longer host next year’s Group of 7 summit at his luxury golf club near Miami, 
“I thought I was doing something very good for our country by using Trump National Doral, in Miami, for hosting the G-7 leaders,” Mr. Trump said on Twitter. “But, as usual, the hostile media & Democrat partners went CRAZY!”
Defying a police ban, demonstrators took to the streets on Sunday, 
It followed a familiar pattern, beginning peacefully and eventually erupting into violence. Shops, bank branches and subway stations were vandalized. Protesters threw firebombs and police officers fired multiple rounds of tear gas. A police water canon doused a mosque’s gate and steps 
China wants to start replacing the cash 
But unlike most cryptocurrencies, which are decentralized and beyond the reach of big banks and government, Beijing’s state-issued version will be 
And, here’s a guide on 
Last week, President Trump’s acting chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney, said that 
“To be clear,” a reporter in the room said, “what you just described is a quid pro quo.” Mr. Mulvaney replied: “We do that all the time with foreign policy.”
Quid pro quo — 
It’s most commonly seen in federal bribery trials, where politicians use the power of their office to help someone, in exchange for some sort of personal enrichment. It can also appear in lawsuits involving sexual harassment. 
Since the start of the investigation, Mr. Trump has turned “no quid pro quo” into a rallying cry. Mr. Mulvaney’s admission that one might have taken place could have enormous consequences.
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Alisha