
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering a derailment of 
British lawmakers rose up against Prime Minister Boris Johnson, voting to take control of Parliament away from the government, and giving themselves the authority to 
After the vote, Mr. Johnson said he intended to present a formal request for a general election to lawmakers, who would have to approve the motion. 
European leaders have 
The European Union is already battling economic woes in many of its powerhouses, including Italy and Germany. And the implications of Brexit have long caused increased anxiety over what could come: crippling traffic jams at ports, confusion over customs procedures and a general state of business-disrupting bewilderment.
What keeps analysts and business leaders up at night is the compressed schedule.
In an instant, the conflict hollowed out the world’s oldest and most successful political party — perhaps leaving a more homogeneous party that sacrifices long-term electoral prospects in pursuit of a hard split from Europe.
The Kurdish-run Al Hol camp is struggling to secure and serve nearly 70,000 displaced people, mainly women and children who fled there during the last battle to oust the Islamic State from eastern Syria.
The country is grappling 
According to government figures, a woman is killed in France by her partner or former partner every three days. A hundred women have been killed this year by their partners, the earliest such a terrible benchmark has been reached in France. 
Officials in Brussels or Berlin may fret about China’s growing sway over the European economy. But that is not a concern one hears in 
Perhaps no place better illuminates Europe’s ambivalence toward Chinese investment, which could be summed up as: Fear the power, love the money.
And Julia Moskin, our food reporter, has 
The focus, according to Icelandic news outlets, will be 
Last week, the U.S. sent two B-2 bombers to its air base at Keflavik, shared with Iceland’s international airport. It was a show of force in Iceland, a NATO ally that has a (modest) Coast Guard but no standing army.
American plans to develop the base have been 
These days, the “hidden folk” often surface as 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Melina