
Good morning.
On Wednesday, Kim Jong-un and President Trump are to meet in Hanoi, Vietnam, to discuss the North’s nuclear arsenal. The two leaders might also declare 
The meeting holds special significance for the 
North Korea’s economy was then larger than the South’s and its promises of socialist programs were attractive. Nearly 95,000 Koreans migrated to the North — among them, the mother of the current North Korean leader.
Facing a rash of resignations from Labour and the prospect of more, the party’s leader, Jeremy Corbyn, 
The amendment is unlikely to be approved in Parliament any time soon, but it will cheer those in the country who have been fighting to reverse the outcome of the 2016 referendum.
In January, Xi Jinping, China’s president, summoned hundreds of officials to Beijing to convey an urgent message: 
Whether dealing with foreign policy, trade, unemployment and even disillusionment among China’s youth, Mr. Xi called on officials to keep trouble from spiraling into real threats. He demanded stricter controls on the internet and warned officials to beware of “black swans” and “gray rhinos” — meaning surprise economic shocks and financial risks hiding in plain sight.
In the past few days, India has moved thousands of new troops into the Kashmir Valley. Families are fleeing the border area. A government directive ordered hospitals to “gear up their Rapid Response Teams.” Food and fuel supplies are running out. And both countries have fired artillery shells.
After a Kashmiri suicide bomber killed dozens of Indian paramilitary police officers this month — an attack that India blamed on Pakistan — tensions between the two nuclear-armed neighbors have reached a point that analysts say 
But the risks are compounded by a coming election in India in which Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s party is using the episode to fan the flames of Hindu nationalism.
We often ask readers for Back Story ideas. Susanne Fischer of New York City suggested the Oxford comma, which was traditionally used at Oxford University Press.
“I’m a big fan, use it often, and think it’s really important for clarification,” she wrote.
The Times, like most other news organizations, does not usually use the comma, which is also known as the serial comma. “In general, do not use a comma before 
“A goal of punctuation is to make a sentence as clear as possible, and in most cases that final comma isn’t necessary for understanding the relationship of all the items in a series,” said Susan Wessling, The Times’s senior editor for editing standards.
There are exceptions. Around this time last year, a 