
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering why some British lawmakers don’t trust
Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s government is trying again today. 
His plan for Britain to exit the E.U. will be 
By law, Mr. Johnson had to request a delay in a letter, which the E.U. has not responded to yet, but he also sent a separate letter to the European Council president saying the approval of a delay would damage the relationship between Britain and the bloc. 
In the weeks before Turkey’s incursion into Kurdish-controlled areas in northern Syria, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan voiced his larger ambition: pursuing a nuclear weapon. 
Now, with the country in open confrontation with its NATO allies, 
The country already has the makings of a bomb program — uranium deposits and research reactors, as well as a long-delayed power reactor now under construction. Experts said it would take a number of years to get from this point to a weapon (unless Mr. Erdogan bought one).
Switzerland’s Green parties appear to have made historic gains in parliamentary elections on Sunday, as voters issued a rebuke to the dominant right-wing party. 
And one of the first nationalist parties to gain traction, the Swiss People’s Party, could lose more than 10 seats in the lower house of Parliament — a 
Closed to foreigners, unreachable by road and shrouded in darkness for 45 days a year, Norilsk, above, an Arctic nickel-mining hub of 180,000, is Russia’s most isolated major city. For a long time, this meant that residents felt separate from much of the country’s turbulence. 
But two years ago, a mining company connected Norilsk to cheaper, faster internet — and to an endless stream of information about politics. Now, some who felt political calm before say 
And, here’s a guide on 
Last week, President Trump’s acting chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney, said that 
“To be clear,” a reporter in the room said, “what you just described is a quid pro quo.” Mr. Mulvaney replied, “We do that all the time with foreign policy.”
Quid pro quo — 
It’s most commonly seen in federal bribery trials, where politicians use the power of their office to help someone in exchange for some sort of personal enrichment. It can also appear in lawsuits involving sexual harassment. 
Since the start of the investigation, Mr. Trump has turned “no quid pro quo” into a rallying cry. Mr. Mulvaney’s admission that one might have taken place could have enormous consequences.
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Melina