
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
Topsy-turvy 
With a bill stopping a no-deal exit from the E.U. on its way to becoming law, the British Parliament pivoted to the next big question: 
Prime Minister Boris Johnson was expected to call for a snap election on Thursday but was essentially blocked by an opposition split not over whether to hold the vote, but when. 
His take-no-prisoners approach also 
About one million Rohingya Muslim refugees who had fled ethnic cleansing in Myanmar are 
Citing state security and public safety, the Bangladeshi government has threatened to impose a communications blackout on Sunday at the camp housing them, the world’s largest.
Reports from the camp say that mobile internet service has already been disrupted at night and early in the morning, and a night curfew keeps aid workers and others out.
There’s a wealth of reporting showing that the demonstrations against Beijing’s broadening control in Hong Kong have been largely leaderless. 
But in state media and official statements, the authorities in China are 
The evidence? Images of protesters waving the U.S. flag and statements of support from congressional leaders in Washington. 
“Friends,” believe it or not, turns 25 this month. With one of the best casts in TV history, the comedy ran for an entire decade, typically had around 25 million to 30 million viewers a week and 
Our salute argues that quirky 
And if you’re heading out on vacation, 
When Piggly Wiggly opened its doors on this day in 1916, grocery shopping changed forever.
It quickly became the standard.
The store became a national chain, making its inventor, Clarence Saunders, a tycoon. His 
But by 1923, he was involved in a bitter dispute with the New York Stock Exchange. He’d cornered Piggly Wiggly stock in retaliation for traders shorting it. The fallout resulted in a slew of lawsuits and 
“They have it all — everything I built, the greatest stores of their kind in the world, but they didn’t get the man that was father to the idea,” Saunders said. “They have the body of Piggly Wiggly, but they didn’t get the soul.”
His next venture was a little too far ahead of his time. His “
That’s it for this briefing. 
— Alisha