
Good morning.
A court in northeastern China sentenced Robert Lloyd Schellenberg to 
The British Parliament is gearing up for a critical vote on Prime Minister Theresa May’s Brexit plan — and defeat is so widely expected that Mrs. May has been fighting not to avert a loss but to 
In that vein, the prime minister enlisted fresh assurances from Europe’s most senior officials and warned again of the dangers of a chaotic “no deal” withdrawal. She also tried to cajole hard-line Brexiteers to support her, even if they hate her plan.
The vote could go down as a historically awful defeat — a margin of more than 100 votes would constitute a big loss.
Shim Suk-hee, a two-time Olympic gold medalist on the national speedskating team, said this month that she was 
Mr. Cho was fired before the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang and has already been sentenced to 10 months in prison for physically assaulting four athletes. But Ms. Shim’s accusations have sent shock waves through the sports community.
“This unveils the humiliating underside of our country’s glorious facade as a sports powerhouse,” President Moon Jae-in said on Monday.
Ms. Shim’s revelation has also inspired other athletes to come forward — a former judo player publicly accused her former coach of repeatedly raping her since she was in high school, and a skating group said at least two other victims planned to speak.
Last year, after Iranian-backed militants fired rockets into an empty lot at the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad, President Trump’s national security adviser, John Bolton, asked for 
Mr. Mattis and other military leaders opposed retaliating, arguing that the attack was insignificant. In the end, that position won out. But now senior Pentagon officials are voicing concern that Mr. Bolton’s policy of isolating and pressuring Iran could set off an armed conflict.
Today is a 10th anniversary of a miracle.
On Jan. 15, 2009, Capt. Chesley Sullenberger 
But the so-called Miracle on the Hudson hardly stands alone.
In 1982, a 
A 
And
Soon after taking off on a cargo flight from Baghdad to Bahrain on Nov. 22, 2003, their Airbus A300 was hit by a surface-to-air missile launched by Iraqi insurgents. The 
Using only the engines to control the plane’s direction and altitude, the crew headed back to the airport and 
Where’s their 