
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re preparing for another consequential week for 
The bill forbidding a no-deal Brexit is expected to become law today after receiving final approval from the queen. Prime Minister Boris Johnson is then expected to call for an election, again, which opposition parties have vowed to reject, again.
Dominic Cummings, the prime minister’s chief aide and the architect of the successful Leave campaign in the 2016 referendum, is said to be 
Regardless of what happens in Parliament, British voters have united on one front: 
President Trump cited a suicide car bomb attack in Kabul that killed a U.S. soldier as he announced over the weekend that he had canceled a secret, imminent meeting at Camp David with Taliban leaders and the president of Afghanistan.
But officials told our reporter that 
On Sunday, the Taliban warned of consequences. “More than anyone else, the loss will be for the United States,” the group said, “their human and treasure loss will increase.”
Protesters are clearly not mollified by the withdrawal of the contentious extradition bill that initially pulled them out into the streets. 
Since Friday night, they’ve held singing sit-ins in malls and have demonstrated at rail stations, saying they will stop only if Hong Kong’s government, led by Carrie Lam, agrees to meet their demands for greater democratic representation. 
On Sunday, they 
But fringe demonstrators turned the peaceful rally violent, smashing windows and setting a fire outside Central Station, a vital transit hub. The unrest later migrated to the Kowloon Peninsula.
India’s space agency announced 
The director of Indian Space Research Organization, K. Sivan, said it was still unclear whether the lander — which had been aimed toward the moon’s South Pole — was damaged in what appeared to have been a too-rapid descent. 
The Chandrayaan-2 mission had stirred up patriotism across the country, with enthusiasts gathered for the landing at viewing parties, and scientists cheering from the control room. Their disappointment was embodied in a widely shared 
Our chief television critic, James Poniewozik, argues that Donald Trump is not only a person, but also a role in a decades-long media performance. 
“To understand him,” he writes, “you need to approach him less like a psychologist and 
 
And a new study suggests that 
Britain is heaving over Brexit, and the pound is bouncing around near its historic low.
To make matters worse, 
In the 1800s, a German scientist, 
The salty dark paste is an acquired taste, often spread on buttered toast. 
Its popularity was confirmed in 2016, when there was 
The new concerns over Marmite arose after Unilever’s chief executive said in June that the company would 
Marmite lovers now have more than Brexit on their minds. 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Alisha