
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering the efforts to undo the chaos in northeastern 
They 
Bashar al-Assad, Syria’s president (and in the view of the U.S. a war criminal), has benefited greatly, along with Iran and Russia. 
Mr. Trump, who essentially greenlighted the Turkish operation last week, took a harsher line today, raising tariffs on Turkey’s steel and suspending trade-deal negotiations with the country.
“The E.U. condemns Turkey’s military action, which seriously undermines the stability and the security of the whole region,” the ministers said in a strongly worded statement.
Amid the fanfare of hostage-taking, royal jewels and other 
Even in her speech, which was written by the government, Queen Elizabeth II said it was the “priority” of Prime Minister Boris Johnson to leave by Oct. 31, and avoided using harder words like committed or determined. The rest of the speech essentially set up Mr. Johnson’s government for a general election; critics 
But experts say that it will be difficult to put a deal in principle into an official legal document so quickly. 
A $4,000 bottle of French wine. Luxury golfing trips. Hiring the children of the well-connected.
Deutsche Bank has 
Its strategy worked: By 2011, the German company was ranked as the top bank for managing initial public offerings in China.
Around the world, smart wine producers are working on ways to keep their vineyards flourishing despite hotter summers, warmer winters, droughts and the sometimes violent expressions of climate change, like freak hailstorms, spring frosts, flooding and wildfires. 
And our Social Q’s column takes on 
My phone rang one recent night. I ignored it. It rang again. I ignored it again. The same call and no response continued a few more times right in the middle of the last presidential debate, which I was watching from home.
It turned out that it was Patrick Healy, our political editor. … Apparently there had been a meeting among the top Times brass in which various people were proposed for the Times moderator role.
When Pat asked me, I chuckled. It turns out he wasn’t joking.
I have a dog named Sandy who greets me at the end of each workday with so much enthusiasm that I forget all the hostile tweets I might have received that day. The debate’s going to be great, I have no doubt, especially to my labradoodle. To her, no matter what happens onstage, I will have won. 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Melina