
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning,
We start with the fallout from
Parliament will debate 
The 432-to-202 vote on Tuesday was the biggest defeat in the House of Commons for a prime minister in modern history. 
The Trump administration said it would 
Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senator Chuck Schumer, the Democratic leader, have refused President Trump’s demand for $5.7 billion for a wall on the southwestern border.
The attorney general nominee said at his confirmation hearing on Tuesday that he would 
Mr. Trump repeatedly excoriated Jeff Sessions, the former attorney general, for recusing himself from the Russia investigation.
Hearings for Mr. Barr, whose confirmation seems virtually assured, resume this morning.
The former president of Mexico, Enrique Peña Nieto, 
The witness, Alex Cifuentes Villa, is a Colombian drug lord who worked closely with Mr. Guzmán from 2007 to 2013. If true, his testimony would suggest that corruption by drug cartels reached the highest level of Mexico’s government. Mr. Peña Nieto could not be reached for comment.
The Tuyuksu glacier in the Central Asian country of Kazakhstan has been studied for decades by scientists who are trying to gauge the impact of climate change on the world’s ice. Last summer, our reporters saw it “melting like mad,” but the accumulating snow in winter hasn’t made up the difference. 
We also have ideas for 
By some estimates, China’s population of 1.4 billion is 
For several years, official policy has aimed to make potatoes a culinary staple, alongside rice, wheat and corn.
Potatoes can tolerate cold, drought and poor soil, and they need less water, fertilizer, pesticide and labor than other staples. Since the 1990s, China has 
Potatoes are hardly new to China. They were introduced about 
But for starch, the Chinese prefer rice and noodles.
One workaround is to process the tubers into potato flour, which is then mixed with wheat flour to make steamed bread, noodles or cakes. The government also promotes regional potato dishes, and supports the production of fries and potato chips.
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Chris