
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering the businessman Carlos Ghosn’s 
The former chairman of Nissan has returned to Lebanon, 
A Lebanese newspaper reported that Mr. Ghosn arrived in Lebanon on a private jet from Turkey. In a statement, released this morning, he said he would “no longer be held hostage by a rigged Japanese justice system.” 
“I have not fled justice — I have escaped injustice and political persecution,” he added. 
The circumstances under which he left Japan were unclear. He had posted bail of $9 million, had been required to surrender his passport and was under close watch by the authorities.
When a 1998 peace deal ended decades of sectarian conflict in Northern Ireland, one of the factors that brought Irish nationalists to the negotiating table was economic: Both Britain and Ireland had by then joined the European Union, an arrangement that ensured uninhibited trade across their mutual border.
As Britain prepares to leave the European Union by Jan. 31, Northern Ireland has become 
At issue is how Britain can “take back control” of its borders without hardening the Irish border and endangering the 1998 deal, as well as whether paramilitary groups on opposite sides of Northern Ireland’s longstanding divide — Protestant “Unionists,” who identify as British, and Catholic “Nationalists,” who identify as Irish — would again resort to violence.
“The war is not over,” a former paramilitary combatant in Belfast said. “Far from it.”
In some ways, Magadan, Russia, is a loose analogue to the Gold Rush towns that lured American and Canadian miners in the 19th century. But the Russians who passed through this grim, cold seaport in the 1920s didn’t come to make their fortunes; they were dragged there to work in nearby gold mines as forced laborers.
Today, Magadan’s young people are rushing for the exits, causing a severe shortage of able-bodied workers. And even though the city is trying to rebrand itself as the “golden heart of Russia,” a local sociologist has diagnosed it as suffering from “delayed life syndrome” — in which inhabitants’ hopes and ambitions from their current life are punted into the future. 
This year, Times reporters filed 125 “dispatches” — our shorthand for features that offer offbeat cultural insights — from 44 countries across six continents. 
Our Top 12 list includes stories about young hobbyhorse enthusiasts in Finland, above; a crackdown on contraband pasta in Italy; threats to an ancient Polish forest; and the inspiring tale of a veteran foreign correspondent who was struck down by a brain tumor during a trip to India.
The 
Then, on Dec. 31, 1904, about 200,000 people celebrated New Year’s Eve with a fireworks display at the 24-story Times Tower for the first time.
But Mr. Ochs wanted to top that. So The Times’s chief electrician made a giant ball out of wood and iron and outfitted it with 100 25-watt bulbs. It was lowered from the 70-foot flagpole atop the building at the end of 1907.
The Times has relocated nearby twice, but the holiday tradition has remained. 
But the 1907 celebration wasn’t the first time a giant ball was raised and dropped. Since the early 19th century, so-called 
That’s it for this briefing. 
We’re off tomorrow for New Year’s Day, but we’ll be back on Thursday.
Until 2020!
— Mike