
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning. 
The disaster had similarities to the crash of another Boeing 737 Max in October, a Lion Air jet that crashed off Indonesia, killing all 189 people on board.
In both crashes, trouble appeared to begin almost immediately after takeoff. The pilots told air traffic controllers they were having technical problems, and the planes seemed to repeatedly climb and dive before a final plunge. 
On Tuesday, British lawmakers are scheduled 
Many expect Parliament to reject her plan again. In all probability, that would leave Britain pleading with the E.U. for an extension — from two months to two years — of the March 29 deadline for divorce.
But even if her plan were approved, one expert said, negotiations on trade links with the E.U. and other partners could take at least seven years and stretch to more than double that as competing visions of what Britain will become do battle.
President Trump has been rolling back operations against Islamist insurgencies from Syria to West Africa, with an exception: Somalia. The American military has 
During January and February, the U.S. Africa Command reported killing 225 people in 24 airstrikes there — approaching the deaths for all of 2018
It was a burning aid truck heard about around the world. On Feb. 23, in a showdown unlike any on the border between Colombia and Venezuela in years, a convoy of aid trucks was blocked by the government of President Nicolás Maduro of Venezuela. Mr. Maduro’s security forces, along with government-aligned gangs, attacked protesters who wielded rocks and Molotov cocktails, and one of the trucks burst into flames. 
Venezuela’s opposition and many others in the U.S. — including Vice President Mike Pence — held up the burned truck as potent evidence of Mr. Maduro’s cruelty. The State Department released a video saying Mr. Maduro had ordered the truck burned. 
In fact, the opposition itself, not Mr. Maduro’s men, 
The Times published 
“Say it with me children: 
Mr. Raab, 84, retired from The Times in 2000, after decades of reporting on the Mafia. His signature 2005 book, “
Your Back Story writer gave Mr. Raab a call. In addition to projects for the History Channel, he’s writing a pilot for a 10-part series based on “Five Families” and working with Netflix on a series about the 1986 Mafia Commission trial.
Sadly, we didn’t have a photo of him on hand.
“I was always very careful about showing my face,” he said, his humor as unchanged as his energy. “The point is, very simply, that there was always a gentlemen’s agreement that if you wrote honestly about organized crime figures, they wouldn’t victimize you, but there are always crackpots.
“And I wasn’t that good-looking to begin with.”