
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
The U.S.’s former 
Kurdish forces in Syria on Sunday 
It was a major turning point in Syria’s long war.
For five years, U.S. policy relied on collaborating with a Kurdish-led militia both to fight the Islamic State and to limit the influence of Iran and Russia. On Sunday, U.S. leverage appeared all but gone.
Prime Minister Boris Johnson of Britain 
10 Downing has been tight-lipped, but Mr. Johnson and his Irish counterpart, Leo Varadkar, appeared 
As the negotiations in Brussels continue today, Queen Elizabeth II will give her queen’s speech, outlining a dense set of proposals for a new Parliament session. The package includes 22 bills touching on a host of topics, including, of course, Brexit. On Thursday, two days of crucial E.U. meetings begin. 
The country’s populist ruling party 
The party rose to power by promoting a brand of aggrieved nationalism mixed with progressive economic policy. It has 
From our Opinion section, a story that offers a window into changing racial hierarchies in the U.S.: Italian immigrants went from a pariah status in the 19th century to white Americans in good standing in the 20th century. 
Columbus Day, the U.S. federal holiday celebrated today in honor of the Italian explorer Christopher Columbus, was central to the process through which Italian-Americans were fully ratified as white. Its origin, steeped in myth about what Columbus did, was part of 
And our Parenting team put together a guide on 
Childlike, informal to the point of frivolity: Comic Sans turns 25 this month. 
Its designer, Vincent Connare, says he was helping develop an easy-to-use operating system for Microsoft in 1994 when he sketched a talk bubble for a “cute little yellow dog” — and had to invent a typeface suitable for dog talk. 
There were 
Twitter once 
Still, it keeps showing up in surprising places. In 2010, the owner of the Cleveland Cavaliers used it to reassure fans when 
Last week, it got another 15 minutes of fame. A lawyer representing two of Rudy Giuliani’s associates told Congress that his clients wouldn’t comply with impeachment inquiry demands — in a 
That’s it for this briefing. 
Journalism is worth paying for. Please 
See you next time.
— Melina