
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering 
The British Parliament reconvenes today for 
On Monday, Prime Minister Boris Johnson 
A government official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said the election could be held as soon as Oct. 14 — just ahead of one of the most important decisions in British history.
President Trump has dismissed more than a dozen North Korean missile tests in recent months as “very standard.” 
But American intelligence officials and outside experts believe the tests have allowed the country to develop missiles with 
High school students
Police officers fanned out, closely watching schools and monitoring subway stations, but the activism remained peaceful, a stark contrast to 
The city’s leader, Carrie Lam, has left the door open on invoking colonial-era broad emergency powers to quell the unrest.
The Chinese government is utilizing a harsher method of control in Xinjiang than its vast re-education camps: arrests and prison sentences. 
Arrests, critics said, are often based on flimsy or exaggerated charges, and trials are perfunctory. “It’s as if the whole population is treated as guilty until proven innocent,” said a cultural anthropologist. 
More than a quarter of the world’s nations — mainly in Asia and Africa — have shut down the internet at one point over the past four years as 
The move often has far-reaching consequences, battering small businesses and economies and disrupting the daily lives of ordinary citizens.
And we have 
If you’re familiar with French, you’ll recognize the first syllable of this month as “seven.” That makes “September” an odd name for the year’s ninth month.
But it made sense in ancient Rome.
There, 
Around 713 B.C., a calendar reform introduced 
In later adjustments, the original fifth and sixth months (which had been pushed to seventh and eighth) were renamed for Julius Caesar and Caesar Augustus: July and August. 
That’s it for this briefing. And an apology: Friday’s Back Story misspelled the name of a famous cartoonist. He is Art Spiegelman, not Speigelman.
See you next time.
— Alisha