
On Saturday, with a million anti-Brexit protesters in London crowding outside Parliament, 
That 
Have you been keeping up with the headlines? Test your knowledge with our 
There’s little doubt that they’ll address two subjects: the U.S. withdrawal from Syria and Mr. Mulvaney’s public confirmation of a quid pro quo with Ukraine. Both moves stunned the party and the country. (Adm. William McRaven’s Op-Ed: 
Above, Mr. Trump with Vice President Mike Pence and Ivanka Trump on Friday, talking to the women making 
Meanwhile, the 
It may not hold. 
The cease-fire deal — which calls for the Kurds to leave territory that Turkey wants as a buffer zone — has been 
The sense of betrayal among the Kurds, trusted U.S. allies, is matched only by 
In arguing for an end to “endless wars,” 
One thing was clear from the Democrats’ debate on Tuesday: 
But none have ramped up their digital operations as much as President Trump. 
Most of the Democrats are 
And 
Polls show the elections deadlocked between Justin Trudeau’s Liberal Party and Andrew Scheer’s Conservative Party. Our Canada correspondent says 
The race hasn’t been pretty, either. Both leaders have faced public embarrassments, including revelations that Mr. Scheer has dual U.S. citizenship and that Mr. Trudeau more than once wore blackface or brownface.
“Reconciliation” — atonement for the country’s history of racism toward Indigenous peoples — is central to Mr. Trudeau’s image. We explored the disconnect between the aspiration and the persistence of minority misery 
Kenneth Dart, an investor and heir to a private U.S. foam-container dynasty, is a major landowner in the 76-square-mile country, a tax haven and financial hub. He’s proposing a $1.5 billion skyscraper and what would amount to a new town. 
Oh, and a cap for its long-festering dump, above. All that, even though the islands face an existential threat: inundation resulting from climate change.
Our correspondent took 
The New Jersey amusement park operated from 1978 to 1996, despite dangerous thrills that would bruise, scar and claim teeth.
There were even six deaths. But when the park closed, it wasn’t regulators’ doing. It was bankruptcy.
Now it’s 
Injuries have taken two sports stars out. The Kansas City Chiefs said they were not sure how long 
In basketball, the New Orleans Pelicans’ prized rookie, 
Our weekly column 
And 
“He worked until his last breath,” his wife said in a statement after he died on Thursday, “because he believed our democracy was the highest and best expression of our collective humanity and that our nation’s diversity was our promise, not our problem.”
Have an uplifting week.