
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re examining Russia’s reaction to news about a 
The Kremlin’s propaganda machine kicked into high gear to counter reports that a Russian informant helped the C.I.A. uncover President Vladimir Putin’s interference in the 2016 U.S. election.
Russian officials and state-controlled media outlets named the informant as Oleg B. Smolenkov, and dismissed him as 
That picture contrasts sharply with what U.S. intelligence officials have said about the spy, who 
The C.I.A. declined to comment, and The New York Times was not able to independently confirm that Mr. Smolenkov was the spy extracted by the United States.
Scotland’s 
While the government said that it intended to prepare lawmakers for a new legislative session, the court found that the maneuver “had the purpose of stymying Parliament” and freeing Mr. Johnson from parliamentary oversight as he pursued a no-deal Brexit. 
A day after the hawkish national security adviser, John R. Bolton, walked out of his White House job, President Trump seemingly undermined his administration’s “maximum pressure” campaign on Iran by opening the door to 
The Supreme Court backed a Trump administration policy that requires many Central American 
The move reverses longstanding asylum policies that allowed people to seek haven no matter how they got to the U.S. 
If you have six minutes, this is worth it
As a symbol of the Communist Party’s seemingly boundless future, a French apartment building was named, in the early 1960s, Cité Gagarine, after the Soviet cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin, the first man in space. Even its structure embodied the ideals of the French Communist Party. 
But now, its dramatic demolition decades later 
Not all dogs are well-trained pets (even if they are still very good dogs). 
This summer, China put its first indigenous aircraft carrier out for sea trials and launched its first commercial rocket into space.
But some pet lovers may be more interested in another milestone: 
It was born in July with DNA from a deceased British shorthair, China’s state-controlled news media reported. The heartbroken owner, a 22-year-old Chinese businessman, kept the corpse in his refrigerator while waiting for a technician to extract some of its skin cells.
The clone was named after the original cat: Da Suan (大蒜), meaning Garlic. The owner told our colleague Sui-Lee Wee that the name just came to him. Garlic is, of course, an indispensable part of Chinese cuisine.
The new Garlic’s birth solidifies China’s position among the major cloning nations, which include Britain, South Korea and the U.S. Sinogene, the company that did the cloning, has cloned more than 40 dogs and is working on a horse.
But Sinogene’s chief executive says he has never owned a pet.
“Cats and dogs require too much care,” he told Ms. Wee.
That’s it for this briefing. Melina will be back tomorrow. 
— Matthew