
Good morning.
Another attempt in Parliament to control 
Late Monday in Britain
Chances of success appear minimal. None of the eight options that were on the table last week managed to fetch a majority in Parliament, and fewer are likely to be considered in this round.
Failure would leave the country with 
“It has amounted to a hollowing out of confidence in democracy itself.”
The president, emboldened 
In recent weeks, Border Patrol facilities have been strained by an 
One camp under a bridge in El Paso, Tex., which one volunteer described as resembling a “concentration camp,” was 
In the aftermath of the live-streamed massacre in Christchurch, New Zealand, lawmakers in both countries are considering 
If the two countries move ahead, their regulations could serve as models for the rest of the world amid growing frustration and anger with Silicon Valley giants.
But the efforts walk a fine line between intervention and censorship. For established democracies that cherish free speech, China’s sophisticated system of suppressing online content could be seen as a cautionary tale.
With around 900 million voters, almost 2,000 registered parties and five weeks of voting, the Indian elections can seem cacophonous. Even for your briefing writer, a diaspora Indian, they’re difficult to follow. The country’s myriad states, cultures and socioeconomic segments can’t be sliced into left or right, red or blue. It’s a kaleidoscope, and each 
But it is also heartening to watch this young democracy exercising a right denied to many in the surrounding region. And it is important: What happens in India can end up shifting the global economy and geopolitical landscape.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his right-wing Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party are seeking to retain power, facing a surging challenge by the opposition Congress Party. The briefing will be regularly unpacking aspects of the race. Voting unfolds from from April 11 until May 19 and results are announced on May 23.
For now, keep in mind that the backdrop for the campaigning is a flammable mix of economic, religious and national security issues. 
Send us your feedback and any questions you have about the elections 
The Modernist school (whose name comes from the German for “house building”) was among the first to combine the teaching of crafts, design, architecture and fine art.
Walter Gropius, the architect who established the school in 1919 in Weimar, Germany, wrote in the Bauhaus’s program that the ultimate aim was the “unified work of art.”
And he enlisted masters of various artistic disciplines, such as Wassily Kandinsky, Laszlo Moholy-Nagy and Paul Klee, to join the Bauhaus faculty.
The school survived for little more than a decade before it was shut down in 1933 under pressure from the Nazis.
But 