
The death of an American soldier in a car bombing last week was the reason Mr. Trump cited for abruptly ending the talks, but 
Taliban violence continued unabated on Monday, with more civilian deaths, while the end of negotiations appeared to open the way for a presidential election in Afghanistan on Sept. 28.
A measure requiring Britain to seek another extension from the European Union if there is no withdrawal agreement by Oct. 19 became law, dealing Prime Minister Boris Johnson a crushing blow. 
Parliament (and protests) are going deep into the British night. The lawmakers are preparing to vote on whether to hold a snap general election, with Mr. Johnson likely to be rebuffed again. Then they adjourn until Oct. 14. 
In addition, John Bercow, the speaker of the House of Commons who has made enemies in the Conservative Party, said 
The dominant e-cigarette company 
The warning came amid a public health crisis. More than 400 cases of vaping-related lung illnesses have been reported, and the ailments may be tied to five deaths.
Public health investigators have yet to determine a specific cause, but have cited the use of vaping products from a number of companies as possible suspects.
The secretary of commerce, Wilbur Ross, threatened 
That threat led to NOAA’s unusual disavowal of the Birmingham office’s statement.
On Monday, NOAA’s acting chief scientist sent an email to staff members that he was looking into “potential violations” in the agency’s decision to back Mr. Trump. He called the disavowal “a danger to public health and safety.”
The Vermont senator has 
His dogmatic approach to health care has helped set the agenda among Democrats, and the issue will most likely be prominent once again as the candidates debate. The third debate is on Thursday in Houston.
We also look at how 
Pilots striking on Monday for more pay from British Airways will be off the job again on Tuesday, resulting in 
They plan another strike for Sept. 27.
British Airlines said it had contacted customers two weeks ago to offer a choice of full refunds or alternative flights, even on different airlines. It was 
Amazon says it has 
The posts don’t even include hourly, seasonal positions like warehouse workers. In fact, more than half the jobs are tech-oriented. The company is holding hiring fairs next week in Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Nashville, Seattle and Arlington, Va.
At the same time, Amazon is a target of government scrutiny over whether it improperly favors its own products and services. We have 
The actor George Takei gives a detailed, wrenching account of what happened to thousands of Japanese-Americans — including himself, at age 5 — in the wake of Pearl Harbor in 
Other highly anticipated books out this week include 
See 
Baltimore’s Lamar Jackson, above, was assumed to be a runner, but he emerged as a productive passer. And the Cleveland Browns, forecast as a contender, proved hapless.
But Kansas City is still a bona fide Super Bowl candidate, and so are the Los Angeles Rams. See the rest of 
The Browns weren’t the only ones to leave crucial points on the table. Colts and Jets 
But our favorite sports-related story today is about 
Data from thousands of fantasy football drafts provided by ESPN shows that the running back Saquon Barkley of the Giants was the top pick.
There was also strong preseason agreement on Christian McCaffrey of the Panthers, Alvin Kamara of the Saints and Ezekiel Elliott of the Cowboys.
But quarterback choices were all over the map. 
Have an interference-free evening.