
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering a 
A 
The lawyers said their new client, whose identity is not known, had grown alarmed by the president’s behavior and was among those interviewed to corroborate the allegations of the original whistle-blower.
Next week are several deadlines for top White House officials to produce subpoenaed documents. (Wondering how impeachment works in the U.S.? 
The attempt, meant to delegitimize the investigation into Russian election meddling, could fray diplomatic relations with allies.
British negotiators will be given another chance today to explain their Brexit plan. 
And President Emmanuel Macron of France said he had given Boris Johnson, Britain’s prime minister, 
In case you missed it, Mr. Johnson, too, seemed to realize that his Oct. 31, do-or-die Brexit was becoming increasingly elusive: In court papers, 
Since the fall of the Soviet Union, wealthy Russians have emerged as influential patrons of the arts. Western cultural organizations — including the Kennedy Center in Washington and the Guggenheim Museum in New York — 
Their financial support of activities that celebrate Russia’s culture creates a counternarrative to the country’s aggression in Ukraine and election meddling. It also fits seamlessly with President Vladimir Putin’s efforts to use “soft power” as a tool of foreign policy.
A changing of the guard is underway as the European Commission is finalized. This year’s crop of candidates is uniquely controversial — some have narrowly escaped charges for corruption or fraud; others faced misconduct accusations; one was asked to leave his hearing and prepare better after failing to answer basic questions about his policy area. 
But this time, the European Parliament is putting candidates through an unusually tough vetting process and, in turn, 
And in 
A provision 
Laws barring people from covering their faces at demonstrations have existed for decades in Europe (Germany enacted its law in 1985, and Norway in 1995). More recently, bans in France, Austria, Denmark and other countries have 
Those bans have raised concerns over civil liberties and religious freedom, though France’s law was 
In the U.S., mask laws 
The case that most closely resembles Hong Kong’s might be from California, where a ban was struck down when Iranian-Americans sued after the 1979 Iranian revolution. Their argument: They needed to shield their identities in protests against Iran’s new leadership.
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Melina