
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering what’s next in 
An Oct. 31 Brexit is now looking nearly impossible, after Prime Minister Boris Johnson faced a defeat on his planned timeline just after his first parliamentary victory.
British lawmakers approved the broad outlines of his plan with a larger than expected majority — which was, in itself, a big step forward. But they 
In short, the whole Brexit effort has been thrown into a legislative abyss that could mean months of further delays to a process that the nation has long since wearied of.
He had said he would rather face a general election than ask for a long delay, which could be a negotiating strategy. 
The top U.S. diplomat in Ukraine drew a “direct line” between President Trump’s withholding of security aid and his demand for investigations into Democrats, sketching out in detail in closed-door testimony on Tuesday a quid pro quo pressure campaign on Ukraine that Mr. Trump and his allies have long denied.
The envoy, William Taylor, 
Earlier, Mr. Trump took to Twitter to 
Russian and Turkish troops will take joint control over a vast swath of territory in northern Syria.
The move, which came after 
Worldwide, desalinated seawater is increasingly seen as an answer to water shortages that will worsen with population growth and climate change.
The European Union has said it 
Regardless of your age, it’s good to have a will. 
The WeWork co-founder Adam Neumann will get a huge payout as part of a deal that will give control of the co-working start-up to its Japanese investor, SoftBank — a move that some described as an enormous “
The definition has become broader over the years, and has come to mean any large corporate severance payout, especially if the executive in question has a tarnished reputation.
Where does Mr. Neumann rank in the annals of golden parachutes? It depends on how you measure his payout, which includes a line of credit and the ability to sell some of his shares to SoftBank. But the co-founder’s “consulting fee” of $185 million, on its own, 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Melina