
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering the mood in 
As Britain gears up for a general election on Thursday, the only thing uniting the traumatized nation may be its disunity. 
Our reporter recently took a 900-mile journey, from London to Glasgow, in an attempt to make sense of a nation 
As France braces for a fifth day of nationwide strikes, much of its train network is at a standstill. The national railway company has warned travelers to stay away from train stations today to prevent overcrowding on platforms.
The workers driving the strikes fear that President Emmanuel Macron will strip away the generous pension benefits that were enshrined in France after World War II, and which still allow some workers to retire in their 50s. At stake, our correspondent writes, “
Jan. 27 will mark 75 years since Soviet soldiers liberated the Auschwitz-Birkenau death camp. And as anti-Semitism and right-wing extremism strain societies across Europe, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany’s visit to Auschwitz on Friday 
Ms. Merkel made her visit as chancellor to the camp in southern Poland — where more than a million people, mostly Jews, were murdered — less than two months after a man armed with a gun and spouting anti-Semitic tropes 
In the latest battle of President Trump’s widening trade war, his administration is planning a bureaucratic attack that would cripple the World Trade Organization’s ability to resolve international trade disputes. It’s a body blow for an organization that Phil Hogan, the European trade commissioner, says is “facing its deepest crisis since its creation,” in 1995.
Specifically, Washington plans to allow the terms of two of the three remaining members of a W.T.O. panel — which hears appeals in trade disputes — to lapse on Tuesday. The panel can have only seven members and needs a minimum of three to function. Shutting it down entirely, 
After Chris Long had a bone marrow transplant to treat his leukemia, he found that DNA from his German donor had traveled to unexpected parts of his body — including his semen. 
The U.S. police department where Mr. Long works is now studying his case to see whether DNA could eventually help investigators track hypothetical cases where people commit crimes after having transplants. 
The Golden Globes nominees will be announced today, part of the entertainment awards season that culminates with the Oscars.
This year, 
It “was born of the chaos of global warfare in 1943,” she wrote, “when eight foreign-born journalists living in California banded together to, apparently, gossip privately about celebrities. (The H.F.P.A.’s website is vague: ‘At first, the members held informal gatherings in private homes.’)”
The organization says it has 
Members must
Perhaps that looseness explains what 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time. 
— Mike