
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning. 
NASA scientists announced that Earth’s average surface temperature for 2018 was 
The trend is unmistakable. The last five years have been the five warmest on record.
“We’re no longer talking about a situation where global warming is something in the future,” said the director of the group that conducted the analysis. “It’s here. It’s now.”
Even an increase of 1.5 degrees will be dire, a U.N. report has found. But despite a global climate compact, it appears likely that Earth’s temperatures will ascend beyond the two-degree threshold. 
Britain’s prime minister will 
Even before she boarded the plane, things did not augur well. Outraging some in Britain, Donald Tusk, the president of the European Council, said there was a “special place in hell” for those who promoted leaving the bloc without offering a plan on how to do so. 
Under pressure from hard-liners, Mrs. May wants to alter the so-called 
A day after President Trump denounced “ridiculous partisan investigations” in his State of the Union speech, Speaker Nancy Pelosi declared that the House Democrats wouldn’t back down from holding his administration accountable.
“It’s our congressional responsibility, and if we didn’t do it, we would be delinquent in that,” she said. Fellow Democrats immediately 
In the last two weeks, thousands of people — many severely injured — have been streaming out of the Syrian village of Baghuz, the 
The Islamic State, which once ruled a dominion the size of Britain, is sequestered to an area about the size of Central Park. But collapse has not meant the group’s end. It still has thousands of fighters in the region and flourishing offshoots overseas, including in the Philippines and Nigeria.
The fact that 
We’ve already seen an uptick in correspondence from women that has been thoughtful and telling. “It has never occurred to me that someone would want to hear my voice,” one said.
Women and men alike expressed concern that we might begin selecting letters on the basis of gender rather than merit. We won’t, but we are 
This weekend we plan to publish readers’ thoughts on why women are underrepresented in opinion pages.