
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering 
Having reduced parts of the Bahamas to rubble, a weakened but dangerous Hurricane Dorian has begun lashing the Florida shore. Storm surge warnings are posted all the way to North Carolina, and seawater could rise to seven feet above normal tidal levels in some places. We’re 
The National Hurricane Center warned early today that most of the Southeast coast 
In the Bahamas, where Dorian made landfall as one of the most powerful Atlantic storms on record, the 
Prime Minister Boris Johnson swept into office in July with a vow to take Britain out of the European Union by whatever means necessary. But 
Some of the lawmakers who handed Mr. Johnson defeat on his first vote as prime minister are members of his own Conservative Party. The conflict 
The crisis over Iran’s nuclear program 
Now Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is flexing military muscle, including by launching raids into Syria against Iranian and Hezbollah troops and arms stores. With Israeli elections on Sept. 17, Mr. Netanyahu could be bluffing, but some worry that Mr. Trump could give him a green light to attack Iran itself.
A month after a gunman killed 22 people at a Walmart store in Texas, 
“As we’ve seen before, these horrific events occur and then the spotlight fades,” said Doug McMillon, Walmart’s chief executive. “We should not allow that to happen. Congress and the administration should act.”
Perhaps no one was more surprised that the author and New Age guru Marianne Williamson was running for president than she was. But now she’s busy stumping in Iowa.
Ms. Williamson contends that by harnessing love’s energy, she could defeat President Trump and alleviate poverty, climate change and the immigration crisis. Her long-shot campaign raises an intriguing question: 
And we have 
The focus, according to Icelandic news outlets, will be 
Last week, 
American plans to develop the base have been 
These days, the “hidden folk” often surface as 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Mike