
So instead, at his latest campaign rally in Dallas, above, Mr. Trump called the speaker of the House “crazy,” a rival candidate “very dumb,” a House committee chairman a “fraud” and the governor of another state a “crackpot.”
After 1,000 days as president, 
But 
Gunfire died down and Kurdish forces began pulling out of a 20-mile buffer zone in northern Syria, U.S. and Turkish officials said, a day after Vice President Mike Pence announced the pause in fighting.
Turkey’s president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, hailed the withdrawal as a victory over a “terrorist organization,” but said the onus remained on the U.S. to ensure the militias withdrew within five days. Above, Turkish tanks moved toward the border.
The agreement may well stop the killing in the Kurdish enclave in northern Syria, 
In the 2016 Brexit referendum, a majority of voters in Scotland and Northern Ireland opted to stay in the European Union, while those in England voted to leave. Now, some analysts say, the latest exit plan could accentuate forces that were already 
In Scotland, above, nationalists said it would galvanize them to seek another referendum on Scottish independence. Irish nationalists, who have long fought for a unified Ireland, saw it as a boon to their efforts. There is even evidence of a budding independence movement in Wales.
To win approval for his deal from Parliament tomorrow, Prime Minister Boris Johnson needs around 30 lawmakers to change sides, according to one analysis. But the numbers are fluid. 
The recall of 33,000 bottles seems to undercut Johnson & Johnson’s defense against thousands of lawsuits that 
The drug company repeated its long-running defense against the claims, saying, “Thousands of tests over the past 40 years repeatedly confirm that our consumer talc products do not contain asbestos.” Its stock price dropped 6 percent today.
The chief technical pilot for the plane, Mark Forkner, told a colleague in 2016 that a new system was making the plane difficult to control in flight simulators, more than two years before two 737 Max crashes killed 346 people.
In a transcript of the exchange, provided to lawmakers on Capitol Hill this morning, Mr. Forkner 
“This is the smoking gun,” Representative Peter DeFazio of Oregon said. “This is no longer just a regulatory failure and a culture failure. It’s starting to look like criminal misconduct.”
The astronauts Jessica Meir and Christina Koch, above, completed 
Originally scheduled for March, the walk was postponed because NASA did not have the right sized spacesuits. That sparked an outcry — and a “Saturday Night Live” spoof — about the legacy of sexism in the space program.
The 
In a different act of nature, the Los Angeles area was struck early this morning by 
The Houston Astros, up 3-1, could lock up 
This weekend’s N.F.L. slate offers a matchup between the quarterbacks Russell Wilson and Lamar Jackson, and a chance for both the 49ers and the Patriots to stay undefeated. 
And 
The Man of Steel will go through changes in December that will ripple through the DC universe. Brian Michael Bendis, who is deep into writing the new era of Superman, 
And this weekend, HBO will debut “The Watchmen,” above, a superhero story delving into America’s legacy of white supremacy. 
Used for centuries in sacred healing traditions throughout Central and South America, the mind-altering brew 
It seems to know no age limit: “It changed my life completely,” said the 74-year-old venture capitalist George Sarlo, above, who first tried the hallucinogen six years ago.
Have a trippy weekend.