
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering the latest in 
Thursday was another explosive day in the convoluted impeachment inquiry in the U.S. Here are the major points to know: 
■ The Times learned that two of President Trump’s top envoys to Ukraine drafted a statement for the country’s new president in August that 
■ President Trump also openly called on China yesterday to investigate former Vice President Joe Biden, 
Critics argue that these requests — seeking foreign assistance in discrediting a potential opponent in the 2020 election — are an abuse of presidential power. By asking so publicly, Mr. Trump seems determined to push back against those charges.
A 20-year veteran police employee attacked his colleagues with a knife inside Paris’s heavily guarded Police Headquarters on Thursday, 
His motive is still unclear, but the attack came a day after a mass demonstration — the biggest in nearly two decades — by police officers over bad working conditions and a lack of public respect. 
With his new proposal for a departure from the E.U., Prime Minister Boris Johnson of Britain managed to rally support among the same lawmakers who tormented his predecessor, Theresa May. 
But 
Mr. Johnson’s plan also leaves the fragile border’s future up to a vote every four years by the Northern Ireland Parliament, a body that has not met in nearly three years, which is too much uncertainty from the E.U.’s perspective. 
Pope Francis and his push for openness — toward migrants, Muslims and gay people — may no longer have influence on a global stage where nationalists, populists and the far right dominate the political conversation.
But inside the church, 
“Productivity hacks” only work if you already have a certain level of privilege. For those who don’t — including many people of color and women — 
England, France, Italy, Japan, New Zealand and Wales are undefeated 
A version of the game has been around for centuries. The ball was originally made of 
The Romans had harpastum, and as far back as the 14th century, Celts played caid (pronounced, roughly, cahjch). That is believed to have evolved into Gaelic football and Australian Rules football, also similar to rugby.
As for the modern game, legend has it that in 1823, William Webb Ellis, a student at 
History is, however, clear on this: His school wrote rules for the game in 1845, permanently lending the name Rugby to what is now 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Melina