
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
Prime Minister Boris Johnson won approval to hold 
The vote in Parliament on Tuesday came after the opposition Labour Party dropped its resistance to an early election, setting off a six-week campaign. Mr. Johnson will likely make a case for a swift Brexit, while the opposition is likely to propose holding a second referendum about whether to leave at all.
But it’s also possible that the divided opposition could end up banding together to pull off an upset victory.
After months of denying access to the locked-down Kashmir region, the Indian government on Tuesday allowed 
Since stripping Kashmir of its autonomy in early August, India has stopped international journalists from traveling there, locked up local politicians, and severed phone lines and the internet.
The Indian government insisted that the Europeans had not officially been invited by New Delhi, although they met on Monday with Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
Rising seas could affect three times more people by 2050 than previously thought, 
The findings show that some 150 million people are now living on land that will be below the high-tide line by midcentury.
Lt. Col. Alexander Vindman, a Ukraine expert on the National Security Council, on Tuesday told House impeachment investigators that he heard President Trump appeal to Ukraine’s president to investigate former Vice President Joe Biden during their July 25 phone call. 
He is the 
Mr. Trump attempted to undercut Colonel Vindman’s credibility, accusing him on Twitter of being a political opponent. 
Pro-democracy protesters in Hong Kong, already officially barred from wearing face masks, are apparently the targets of another ban. The South China Morning Post reports that a block on importing black clothes — the de facto uniform of the demonstrators — first issued in July has recently become more all encompassing.
Our chief fashion critic, Vanessa Friedman, says that the ban misses the point. Color doesn’t define protest clothing, but unity. 
And 
John Legend and Kelly Clarkson are 
The song, written in 1944, has a 
Critics say the song depicts a man refusing to take “no” for an answer. Complicating matters, there have been versions with women playing the aggressor — including one where 
“What will my friends think?”
“I think they should rejoice.”
“If I have one more drink?”
“It’s your body, and your choice.”
That’s it for this briefing. (Baby it’s woke outside.)
— Andrea and Alisha