
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering the naming of an
The group 
In addition to confirming the deaths for the first time, the Islamic State announced in an audio message, released on the Telegram app, that Mr. al-Baghdadi had been succeeded as leader by Abu Ibrahim al-Hashemi al-Qurayshi, whom it identified as the “emir of the believers” and “caliph.”
But almost nothing is publicly known about Mr. al-Qurayshi, including his real name, and counterterrorism analysts were scrambling Thursday to try to figure out who he is.
John Bercow made good on his promise to 
There are nine lawmakers who hope to succeed him. An election is scheduled for Monday. 
The son of a cabdriver, Mr. Bercow is an outsider who made his way to the top of the British establishment. He was lauded on Thursday for his efforts to make Parliament more open, and for his support of L.G.B.T.Q. rights. But he was critiqued for his perceived partisan bias in a job that requires strict neutrality, his love of the limelight and his sympathy to the opposition, including during the Brexit proceedings.
The bitterly divided House voted on nearly exact partisan lines to advance the impeachment inquiry into President Trump. The vote, endorsing rules laid out by Democrats governing the impeachment proceedings, 
The vote — just the third of its kind in U.S. history — officially put the investigation on the record, a signal that the Democrats leading the proceedings are confident that they have enough evidence to make their case to the public.
Just two Democrats voted against the measure (and another didn’t vote). Republicans unanimously opposed it (though three didn’t vote).
Seven French police officers have been ordered to hand over their weapons, and at least one employee has been suspended, after security forces were encouraged to report signs of radicalization in their ranks in the wake of a fatal attack at police headquarters in Paris.
There has been a particular new focus on radicalization within the security forces. Agents have raised more concerns about colleagues’ behavior 
But the authorities also warned that vigilance shouldn’t translate into discrimination against Muslims. 
“Little Women” has been retold and adapted, generation after generation, for over a century. In the new film adaptation of “Little Women,” the filmmaker Greta Gerwig didn’t so much adapt the Louisa May Alcott story as excavate it to make 
When she reread the novel as an adult, Gerwig was struck by how modern its dialogue felt. She also found herself measuring her adult life against the expectations of her girlhood. “I’m always answering to her,” she said of her younger self, “about whether I’m being as brave as I could be, or as big as I could be.”
 
And our 
Yes, it’s time for U.S. clocks to fall back an hour this weekend, going to “standard time” from “daylight saving time.”
And there’s the usual 
There has never been global agreement on the twice-yearly clock changes. Mexico and most of Europe switched last weekend, while Australia moved to D.S.T. last month. Some 40 countries in the Middle East and Asia never change clocks.
At least 
And the 
At least no one is suggesting we go back to 
They took the amount of daylight in each season and just divided it by 12, making each hour longer in spring and shorter in the fall.
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Melina