
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering the death of 
The lawmaker from Maryland was one of the most powerful Democrats in Congress and a key figure in the investigation of President Trump. 
Mr. Cummings, who was first elected to Congress in 1996, was a vocal defender of his hometown, Baltimore, and campaigned tirelessly for stricter gun control laws and help for those addicted to drugs. 
As chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Reform, he spent his final months sparring with Mr. Trump, calling the president’s effort to block congressional lines of inquiry “far worse than Watergate.” 
A group led by Vice President Mike Pence is scheduled to meet with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan today in an effort to persuade him to end the military incursion in Syria.
The meeting comes a day after President Trump 
Mr. Trump also held 
Gordon Sondland, the U.S. ambassador to the European Union, is scheduled to speak with House investigators today, the latest in a parade of Trump administration officials to 
Britain and the European Union 
The deal must still be approved by Europe’s leaders and, most crucially, by Britain’s Parliament. The support of the Democratic Unionist Party of Northern Ireland, which was seen as vital to the passage of the agreement, was not assured. 
Three major drug distributors and two manufacturers 
The agreement with multiple states hasn’t been fully approved by cities and counties that are also party to more than 2,300 lawsuits.
In 1995, when The Times first profiled Marie Schembri, a New York-based investigator, the industry was still a boys’ club that clung to noir stereotypes, and most of her clients were men.
Now, 
And we have 
The Korean Central News Agency is North Korea’s media producer, controller and disseminator. 
One of its main roles is letting the country’s 25 million people know exactly what the totalitarian leadership wants them to.
It portrays the North as powerful, well regarded and prosperous, while insulting and threatening perceived enemies in sometimes bizarre wording involving boiled pumpkins and 
And it showcases no end of heroic images of the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, 
KCNA was founded in 1946, the year after Korea was divided along the 38th parallel at the end of World War II. U.S. forces occupied what became South Korea, and Soviet forces moved into what became the North.
The Soviet propaganda machine, well practiced at lionizing Stalin, 
KCNA followed the model and has been instrumental in creating 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Chris