
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning,
We start today with the safety fears raised after 
At least 23 airlines have taken the Boeing 737 Max 8 out of service after the second crash involving the model in five months. The company stood by the plane’s safety but said that it planned software updates and was working on changes to flight controls and training guidelines. 
The voice and data recorders have been recovered from the plane that crashed in Ethiopia on Sunday, but it could still 
The president on Monday 
The budget has little chance of passing in its current form, but it does offer a preview of the president’s re-election campaign priorities.
Prime Minister Theresa May’s prospects of winning a critical vote today on Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union 
Mr. Cox’s opinion is likely to be crucial in swaying the votes of pro-Brexit lawmakers.
The Central American country, population 5 million, 
How to pay for Costa Rica’s ambitions remains a question mark. But if its decarbonization strategy succeeds, it could provide a road map for others, especially developing countries. If it doesn’t work in a small, politically stable country, it would have equally profound consequences.
For decades, American museums have received gifts from donors inspired by philanthropic zeal, lucrative tax deductions and/or the prestige of seeing their works in esteemed settings. But there’s often no way to display more than a small fraction of the holdings, and the cost of climate-controlled storage is prohibitive. 
Also, we have tips from women and nonbinary D.J.s and performers on 
Charles Boycott couldn’t buy food. He couldn’t find employees. He could hardly walk down the street in peace.
Boycott, 
In 1880, residents of County Mayo, Ireland, were facing potential famine after several failed harvests, and many could not pay their rent. Boycott, the land agent for a wealthy nobleman, was responsible for evicting those on 
When he tried, the Irish National Land League suggested 
Boycott’s plight attracted international attention, including 
Within months, The Times was 
Fancy a trip to Vegas? 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Chris