
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering escalating tensions in 
The movement against the mainland has fueled one of the city’s worst political crises but beneath it is 
The gap between the rich and poor is at its widest in nearly half a century, and nearly one in five people live in poverty. 
Robert Mueller, the special counsel, will testify in Congress on Wednesday about his investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 elections and whether President Trump obstructed justice.
It’s unlikely that Mr. Mueller will reveal anything beyond what is in the report of his findings. But there are still some 
Republicans are advocating a gentler approach in order to 
The pound has 
Many in Britain fear that Mr. Johnson’s promise to leave the European Union on Oct. 31, deal or no deal, could set off economic chaos. Britain’s currency has been hovering around $1.24 in recent days, and some analysts believe it could be dragged down further, possibly even to parity with the dollar.
An island-wide strike demanding that Gov. Ricardo Rosselló resign paralyzed large parts of the territory. 
In San Juan, tens of thousands of protesters marched down a major highway, the biggest shopping mall and some banks were closed, university classes were canceled and cruise ships were turned away. Follow our live updates 
Organizers are hoping to draw a million people — about a third of the population — in what appears to be one of the largest demonstrations that the island has ever seen.
It was the final straw for Puerto Ricans, who have been suffering austerity measures in a yearslong recession and the devastation of Hurricane Maria.
The World Health Organization estimates that 20,000 people a year die of canine rabies in India — amounting to a third of global deaths from the disease.
As part of a push to reduce that toll to zero, nonprofits have set up a campaign in Goa, the country’s smallest state, to vaccinate dogs. But its effectiveness depends on 
And we look at how real estate brokers and marketers 
He will forever be a cute kid wizard for a certain generation.
But members of that generation might be feeling their age today: 
He’s hardly been idle. In the eight years since the release of the last Potter film, 
He’s also became a published poet under the pen name Jacob Gershon; had his portrait hung in London’s National Portrait Gallery; and voiced characters in “The Simpsons,” “Robot Chicken” and “Bojack Horseman.”
On
In Mr. Radcliffe’s next film, “
That’s it for this briefing. Mischief managed!
— Alisha