
Of all the agonizing twists and turns of British politics since the narrow vote on June 23, 2016, in favor of 
The 
Brexit is now a fact, and that is the first and most concrete takeaway from the election. Without any viable opposition in his own Tory ranks, whose dissidents he had purged before the election and whose deputies all vowed to support him on Brexit, Mr. Johnson is likely to get his Brexit bill through Parliament within days or weeks, and Britain to formally leave the union by the end-of-January deadline. For many Britons and for many leaders of the Continent, ending the endless bickering and the threat of a chaotic 
But that does not mean Brexit is “done,” or that it will be done quickly. It only opens the next, and arguably more difficult, stage of disentangling Britain from the vast and complex economic relationships that form the customs links and single market of the European Union, a task that is supposed to be done within a year but probably won’t be. Throughout the campaign, in which Mr. Johnson was successfully 
That is only one of many areas in which Mr. Johnson has given little indication of how he intends to use the enormous political power the election handed him for the next five years. It is worth recalling that during most of the referendum campaign he was still the mayor of London, pondering whether he was for or against Brexit, and that most of his energies since were focused on getting into 10 Downing Street.
He eventually settled on a hard pro-Brexit stance, combining that with shameless populism; a smattering of lies; a way with words; and what turned out to be 
But the first wave of commentaries in the immediate aftermath of the election results were already wondering what new world was being ushered in. The survival of the “United” in United Kingdom itself was in question after a strong showing by the nationalist party in Scotland and its certain demand for 
Then there was the uncertainty over whether Mr. Johnson would or could live up to his pledges of enormous spending on the national health service, schools and the environment, pledges that helped him pry working-class voters away from Labour. 
It is inevitable that Americans will search for 
And there are bound to be suggestions that 
There are lessons to be learned, no doubt, but it is also important to underscore the differences. Whatever his clownish quirks and failings, Mr. Johnson is a seasoned politician who knows and understands the workings of British politics and is familiar with the continent from which he is separating his country. That may be of little solace to liberal voters in Britain who see Brexit as a disaster and Mr. Johnson as an opportunist, but at least Mr. Johnson is not likely to succumb to 
And while Mr. Corbyn’s dogmatic ideology did harm Labour’s chances, 
One certainty is that Britain faces an intense, broad and prolonged debate on its identity and its future. Whether Mr. Johnson can lead his country through the challenges that lie ahead is far from clear from his history or his record. But he is full of surprises, not least of which was Thursday’s victory. Let us hope that a newfound sense of responsibility is among them.