
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning. 
Senator Mitch McConnell, the Republican majority leader, and Senator Chuck Schumer, the Democratic leader, 
Two and a half years ago, 52 percent of British voters
Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and President Emmanuel Macron of France — representing countries that for ages waged ruinous wars against each other — met in a German city to 
But the ceremony was a reminder of the Continent’s current instability. “Seventy-four years after the end of World War II — a lifetime — things considered self-evident are again being called into question,” Ms. Merkel said.
In Britain, the Chinese telecommunications company Huawei donated to top schools, held parties for political leaders and sponsored a charity founded by Prince Charles. In Germany, it sponsored the recent convention of the governing Christian Democratic Union.
Europe is now Huawei’s biggest market outside China, generating $20 billion in revenue together with the Middle East and Africa in 2017 — about a quarter of its total business. That’s the result of a 15-year campaign to 
But untangling may be difficult, as Huawei’s equipment plays a crucial role in Europe’s wireless infrastructure. Severing ties could delay hyperfast 5G networks.
World leaders and chief executives are converging in Davos, Switzerland, for the annual meeting of the 
The 
Long before the forum existed, Davos was linked to Europe’s bourgeoisie as the setting of 
We asked Pamela Paul, the editor of the Book Review, what today’s readers should know about the book, which follows a wealthy young German through seven years in a tuberculosis sanitarium just ahead of World War I.
“Many people read it as a metaphor for the sickness of Europe on the brink of war,” she answered. “Well-heeled invalids gather indefinitely, for a cure that doesn’t necessarily come — perhaps deliberately. The longer they stay, the greater the owner’s profits.
“They spend their days gossiping, pursuing love affairs and having abstract arguments that never reach any decisive resolution.”