
LONDON — Talks on a compromise Brexit plan between Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain and the opposition Labour leader, Jeremy Corbyn, hit a snag on Friday, just as Mrs. May sought a nearly two-month delay in the deadline for leaving the European Union.
Labour leaders said Mrs. May had so far refused to budge from her original plan, but the government said it was still prepared to propose changes.
The developments illustrated the challenges confronting the leaders in reaching an agreement for Britain’s withdrawal, with both Mrs. May and Mr. Corbyn facing difficulties within their parties if they compromise.
News of the deadlock came on the same day Mrs. May asked for a second extension of the deadline for departure, to June 30. The original March 29 deadline had been extended once, to April 12 — one week away.
Commenting on the negotiations so far between Mrs. May and Mr. Corbyn, Keir Starmer, Labour’s lead lawmaker on Brexit, said the government was so far not allowing “any changes to the actual wording of the political declaration,” the part of Mrs. May’s deal that outlines Britain’s future relationship with Europe and that would be the centerpiece of any compromise.
He said talks would continue only if the government changed its position.
“So far, the government isn’t proposing any changes to the deal,” Mr. Starmer told reporters on Friday. “We want the talks to continue and we’ve written in those terms to the government, but we do need change if we’re going to compromise.”
The basics of Brexit, the troubled plan for Britain to quit the European Union.
A minister in Mrs. May’s government, Rory Stewart, said the government was prepared to compromise on the political declaration, saying the negotiations with Labour had run into problems but were not dead.
“In truth, the positions of the two parties are very, very close and where there’s good will it should be possible to get this done and get it done relatively quickly,” Mr. Stewart said in an interview on BBC Radio 4.
In a statement, Downing Street said, “We have made serious proposals in talks this week, and are prepared to pursue changes to the political declaration in order to deliver a deal that is acceptable to both sides.”
No further talks were scheduled, a Labour official said, but the party was willing to reopen negotiations if the government’s position changed.
After seeing her Brexit deal 
Mrs. May’s plan was to eventually take Britain out of Europe’s main economic structures but give it control over immigration from continental Europe.
Mr. Corbyn has been reluctant to be pinned down on a single alternate plan, but Labour’s policy is to keep Britain more closely tied to European regulations and leave the door open to a second public vote on Brexit.
One of the compromise plans that has been most popular in Parliament is Britain’s agreeing to remain 
But Mrs. May would risk a rebellion of hard-line, pro-Brexit lawmakers in her Conservative Party if she accepts a compromise that keeps Britain tied closely to Europe.
Meanwhile, a compromise would force Mr. Corbyn to face the wrath of pro-European lawmakers in Labour, who want nothing less than another public vote that could reverse Brexit altogether.
Mrs. May already seemed to be contemplating difficulties in talks when she wrote on Friday morning to Donald Tusk, the president of the European Council, asking to again delay Britain’s departure from the bloc.
She said in the letter that if talks with Mr. Corbyn did not produce a compromise, she would hold a series of votes in Parliament on alternative paths, in the hopes that lawmakers would settle on one.
Parliament has
“This impasse cannot be allowed to continue,” Mrs. May wrote. “In the U.K. it is creating uncertainty and doing damage to faith in politics, while the European Union has a legitimate desire to move on to decisions about its own future.”
Mrs. May also conceded in the letter that Britain was preparing to take part in elections for the European Parliament in May.
Analysts said Brussels would probably reject her proposed date of June 30 for a Brexit postponement — and some countries said they had yet to see a sufficient reason to support any extension.
Britain was originally scheduled to leave the bloc on March 29, but European leaders 
Mr. Tusk was pushing European leaders to offer Mrs. May a one-year extension for Brexit while leaving the door open to an earlier withdrawal if Britain ratifies a deal, according to a senior European Union official familiar with his thinking. The official spoke on condition of anonymity, in keeping with standard practice.
That plan, 
Mr. Tusk’s plan would still need the backing of European Union member states, and there were some signs of resistance from France, which typically takes the hardest line in these matters, as well as Austria and the Netherlands.
“The French president has made very clear that if we want to grant an extension: What for?” the French finance minister, Bruno Le Maire, said before a meeting of European finance ministers in Bucharest, Romania, on Friday. He added, “It is up to the British government to give an answer to that key question.”
The cross-party talks had been cited by some as reason enough for the bloc to offer an extension. Further difficulties in the talks throw that into question, and any new extension may depend on what Parliament manages to accomplish next week.
The Netherlands has generally been more sympathetic to Britain, but Mark Rutte, the Dutch prime minister, expressed exasperation with the British negotiating approach. “I keep being amazed at how the fifth economy of the world handles its interests,” he said.
In asking for an extension until June 30, Mrs. May was bowing to pressure from within her Conservative Party not to be seen as forcing the country into a longer delay.
But she was also laying the ground for a more protracted extension by agreeing that Britain was prepared to participate in European elections in May. That was seen in Brussels as a condition for another Brexit postponement.
Those moves have not gone over well with 
The Labour Party received a glimmer of good news in a 
But amid low turnout, the margin was relatively slim, with the winner, Ruth Jones, receiving 39.5 percent of the vote, compared with 31 percent for the Conservatives and 9 percent for the rejuvenated far-right U.K. Independence Party.