
Good morning. 
A dispute over the 
Some of the special counsel’s investigators told associates that the attorney general had 
The investigators had already written multiple summaries of the nearly 400-page report, and some team members believe that the attorney general, William Barr, should have included more of their material in the 
The officials declined to flesh out why some of the special counsel’s investigators viewed their findings as potentially more damaging for the president than Mr. Barr explained.
The global media empire of Rupert Murdoch has 
Our reporters examined how Mr. Murdoch’s media outlets, which include Fox News, have promoted right-wing politics and stoked reactionary populism in recent years. While the empire did not cause the global wave of right-wing populism, it enabled it, promoted it and profited from it. 
If you don’t have time to read The Times Magazine’s full, three-part investigation, read 
A harsh new criminal law in Brunei — one that includes death by stoning for sex between men or adultery, and amputation of limbs for theft — 
Brunei, a tiny monarchy on the island of Borneo in Southeast Asia, based the law on the most extreme interpretation of Shariah, an Islamic legal code drawn from the Quran and other writings.
An American college admissions scandal offered a window into the inequities of the application process. But what about the campuses themselves?
Students at the University of Southern California, which figures prominently in the indictment in the scheme, 
“I have met these rich kids who have so much that I can’t comprehend, doing things that I can’t fathom,” one sophomore said. 
The North Atlantic Treaty Organization officially turns 70 today.
Having lunch in the cafeteria at NATO’s headquarters in Brussels is like attending a costume party, given 
The appeal is a mutual defense pact that has a rejuvenated purpose: to keep Russia contained and Germany defended.
Tensions that had seemed to diminish with the fall of the Soviet Union are back, thanks to the 2008 Georgian war, the 2014 Russian annexation of Crimea and warfare in eastern Ukraine, and Russian meddling in Montenegro, Greece and other countries in Central Europe.
President Trump has disparaged NATO’s new headquarters as too expensive. But for this frequent visitor, it was a needed replacement for the ramshackle old structure. I once nearly lost my foot going through a rotten floor that was thrown together when Charles de Gaulle threw NATO out of France in 1966.
But even France has come back to full membership, 