
LONDON — Prime Minister Theresa May on Thursday suffered another significant defeat over Britain’s tortured exit from the European Union when a fragile truce within her Conservative Party collapsed, exposing fault lines in Parliament that are slowly widening as the deadline for leaving approaches.
By a margin of 303 to 258, lawmakers failed to support a motion endorsing the government’s battered strategy for Britain’s withdrawal, or Brexit, ignoring a warning from one minister that doing so could worsen Mrs. May’s chances of securing changes that could make her unpopular exit plan more palatable.
The latest defeat has no legal implications but is another in a numbing series of setbacks for Mrs. May, whose proposals for leaving the bloc were rejected by 
Mrs. May has assured European negotiators that she can get a majority for a revised Brexit plan, if they make some concessions. But this latest show of disunity from lawmakers, and rebellion from within her own party, appeared to confirm suspicions that legislators cannot coalesce around any plan they can accept.
That leaves the European Union with little incentive to budge until things are clearer in London. Yet Britain is scheduled to leave the bloc on March 29, and some analysts believe that the outcome will still be unclear until a few days before that deadline. In the meantime, businesses are left trying to plan for the potentially 
Thursday’s debate in Parliament laid bare the tensions over Brexit within the Conservative Party where a confrontation between hard-liners, willing to contemplate a no deal Brexit, and moderates determined to stop that outcome, has been simmering for weeks.
Nor are divisions limited to the government, because feelings among pro-European lawmakers within the opposition Labour Party are coming to a slow boil over the reluctance of their leader, Jeremy Corbyn, to contemplate demanding a second Brexit referendum.
“It is unusual, back through history, for both of the parties to be under such strain,” said Roger Awan-Scully, head of politics and international relations and professor of political science at Cardiff University. “To see problems in both is an indication of how fundamental and complicated this issue is.”
There have been rumblings around Parliament of a breakaway party combining pro-European elements of the two main parties and perhaps Liberal Democrats. Yet, with an electoral system that favors established incumbents over newcomers, Britain is a notoriously tough place to start a new political party, and a breakaway from the Labour Party in the 1980s ultimately faltered.
Still, Mr. Awan-Scully said, “The odds are against us coming through Brexit without some significant defections from at least one of the major parties.”
So far the two parties have just about stayed together, and suggestions that the Brexit impasse could be resolved by cooperation between Mrs. May and Mr. Corbyn have produced little. Mrs. May has rejected Mr. Corbyn’s central demand, that Britain should remain in a customs union with continental European nations.
Two weeks ago Mrs. May managed to broker a temporary truce when her Conservative Party united around an amendment in Parliament that demanded big changes to the so-called backstop plan that aims to keep goods flowing smoothly over the Irish border. Mrs. May has since argued that she will have a stable majority in Parliament if she secures concessions from Brussels on this issue.
But on Thursday that fragile consensus fractured when some right-wingers made it clear they would not support the government motion on its handling of the negotiations. That is because another, nonbinding amendment to the motion was adopted during the same session two weeks ago acknowledging that a majority of lawmakers opposed a no-deal Brexit.
The hard-liners believe that keeping open the option of leaving without an agreement will increase Britain’s leverage, because a disorderly exit would damage European economies, too.
Their mood was not improved by reports that Mrs. May’s chief Brexit negotiator, Olly Robbins, was overheard in a hotel bar in Brussels saying that he expects lawmakers to be presented in March with a choice between supporting a reworked Brexit deal or a potentially significant delay to Brexit.
That directly contradicted Mrs. May’s stated position that she is not contemplating requesting the extension.
Moderates in the Conservative Party face a particularly excruciating dilemma. They know that the tide of sentiment among activists in their party is strongly pro-Brexit, so a determined push to stop a no-deal Brexit could end their careers. They have the disquieting example of one of their own, Nick Boles, who is 
However, they also agree with more liberal lawmakers that leaving the bloc without a deal would be so damaging to the country and their party that opposing a no-deal Brexit, or compromising with the Labour Party, is the only responsible course of action.
Within the Conservative Party this rift is likely to come to a head on Feb. 27, when Parliament is expected to make another attempt to take control of the process, in the absence of a Brexit deal. If by then Mrs. May has failed to secure a revised deal with the European Union, several ministers are threatening to resign in order to rebel.
So far there is little sign of progress in Mrs. May’s talks in Brussels.
In an interview with the Spanish newspaper El País, the Dutch prime minister, Mark Rutte, warned Britain that the balance of power in the negotiation was not in its favor, arguing that the country was “on the wane compared to two or three years ago,” was going to become “a middling economy stuck in the Atlantic Ocean,” and “too small to appear on the world stage on its own.”
Pro-Europeans fret that Mrs. May intends to string them along, and postpone a final vote until the week before Britain’s departure, hoping that the pressure of the deadlock will force them to buckle and support her plan.
That risk has exposed a fault line within the Labour Party over policy toward a second referendum. Since Labour has failed to secure the general election it wants as its top priority, its pro-European lawmakers now want it to shift into endorsing the people’s vote.
That idea is popular among party members but has been resisted by Mr. Corbyn, a lifelong critic of the European Union, and is opposed by lawmakers in some Leave-voting areas.
In a sign of the growing tensions, Clive Lewis, a shadow Treasury minister, on Thursday warned Mr. Corbyn of the consequences of failing to oppose Mrs. May’s Brexit plans vigorously.
“My fear is that what we are now doing is that we are helping to facilitate a Tory Brexit,” he told a meeting of Labour supporters.