
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering a backlash to the 
Turkey launched a ground and air assault 
Turkey had long planned to root out the militia, the Syrian Democratic Forces, which it considers to be a terrorist organization. In a flurry of confusing statements, President Trump gave Turkey the green light in a phone call on Sunday with its president, prompting fierce debates in the U.S., but he then condemned the operation on Wednesday.
Mr. Trump 
A heavily armed assailant with a live-streaming head camera 
At least 51 congregants
The attacker broadcast parts of the attack via Twitch, a live-streaming platform owned by Amazon, where he declared that, “the root of all these problems is the Jew.” Twitch scrambled to remove it and issue an apology.
The police could not confirm whether security was stationed outside the synagogue, as is common in larger German cities.
After years of economic stagnation, Russians’ patience with their government is wearing thin. Aleksandr Gabyshev, above, is a shaman who tapped into that frustration, 
Mr. Gabyshev, who says President Vladimir Putin is evil and requires an exorcism, has been detained and faces incarceration in a mental institution. “My tales coincided with the desperation of Russians who live with injustice, poverty and destitution,” he said.
Plus: Gorillas and chimpanzees can teach humans a lot 
China eradicated video and discussion of “South Park” from the country’s major platforms this week, after an episode of the American cartoon 
It was hardly the first content scuffle for a show known for raunchy satire and the delight it takes in offending large groups of people.
Catholic groups weren’t thrilled with the show’s depiction of the Virgin Mary. Neither were Mormons when the show mocked their history.
But in two decades of impropriety, actual censorship has been rare.
In 2006, its home network, 
In 2010, an episode satirizing the Prophet Muhammad drew a warning from a Muslim group. In the next episode, the show’s creators, Trey Parker and Matt Stone, 
That’s it for this briefing, but before you close this email, please consider 
See you next time.
— Melina