
Britain has been in turmoil in recent days as its two main political parties haggle over the nation’s withdrawal from the European Union. 
This article provides an overview of Brexit, from the 2016 referendum to Parliament’s latest rebuke of Prime Minister Boris Johnson. In this lesson, students will learn what Brexit is, how it developed into the mess it is today and how it could ultimately be resolved.
If you are doing this in a classroom context, pool your knowledge about Brexit before you begin. What do you know or think you know? Compile as long a list of Brexit facts — or, what you think are facts — as you can on the board or online. As you read, you can confirm or cross out each fact.
Then read this short overview of what has happened so far, including the latest turn of events:
Britain’s two main political parties are haggling over the nation’s withdrawal from the European Union, known as Brexit. The badly divided government is in crisis, unable to agree on an approach to the country’s biggest peacetime decision in decades. The deadline to come up with a plan is fast approaching.
The struggle has already cost one prime minister, Theresa May, her job; she announced on May 24 that she would resign after failing to come up with a plan that satisfied her party, her coalition partners and officials in Brussels, the seat of the European Union.
Now it is taking a toll on her successor, Boris Johnson. The Conservative Party chose Mr. Johnson, a brash proponent of withdrawal, to succeed Mrs. May and take control of the Brexit process.
It has not gone well.
Many lawmakers were outraged over Mr. Johnson’s insistence that if need be, he would pull Britain from the European Union even without a formal agreement — a move many warn could mean 
When
The deadline for withdrawal is currently Oct. 31. Mr. Johnson insists he can cut a deal with the European Union before then. But time is rapidly running out.
What ultimately emerges could determine the shape of Britain and its place in the world for decades. 
Now answer these questions:
What is Brexit?
Why is Britain currently in crisis?
In July of this year, Boris Johnson, an ardent supporter of Brexit, took over as prime minister from Theresa May. How have things gone for him so far and why?
As Brexit has developed into the mess it is today, a litany of creative interpretations have sprung forth — from 
How would you creatively encapsulate Brexit? Try your hand at designing some visual work that demonstrates your understanding of it. You might choose to create something that captures the overall mood or something that illustrates one aspect of the process, like a particular political moment or its social impact.
Whatever you choose to create, write a short paragraph to go along with it that explains how your piece comments on or describes Brexit, and cite evidence from the article to support your interpretation.
(If you’re doing this in a classroom setting, you might jigsaw the task, with small groups creating visual representations that illustrate each section of the article. Taken together, what story do they tell about Brexit?)
Here are a few ideas to get you started:
Create a meme that illustrates some aspect of Brexit. For example, the
Use an image or video to represent some aspect of or the overall morale around Brexit. For example, in this 