
STAMFORD, England — The Conservative lawmaker Nick Boles stood at the altar of a 15th-century church last week, gazing out at the people who held his political future in their hands.
They were lingering at the back of the church: a cluster of men and women in their 60s, mostly white-haired and wearing sensible coats. They were the leaders of the local conservative association, the ones deciding whether to expel Mr. Boles from his seat for trying to block a no-deal Brexit. Party leaders see the threat of no-deal as a key lever in last-minute negotiations with the European Union.
“He has let us down badly,” said Philip Sagar, chairman of the Grantham and Stamford Conservative Association. “I cannot vote for someone who is selfish,” said Matthew Lee, the leader of the District Council.
On Monday, the leaders of the local conservative association voted to start a protracted process that could result in deselection, which would prevent him from seeking re-election as a Tory. His fate is being watched closely as a bellwether of whether the Conservative Party will go on to 
They are carried out by a group that rarely draws attention: the party’s grass roots, roughly 100,000 committed local Conservative activists who are both older — around half are over 65 — and more fiercely pro-Brexit than the electorate as a whole.
The Tory grass roots, compared with most Britons, 
Mr. Boles is one of few Tories to openly challenge them on this, a decision that, he acknowledged, is likely to end his career in politics.
“I’m the fattest target, yes,” he said, cheerfully, in an interview.
In British politics, he added, “If you’ve burnt your bridges with whatever of the two parties you’re elected by, you’ve probably burnt your bridges full stop.”
When asked about his decision, Mr. Boles pivots — as he says a psychiatrist would — to a biographical episode.
At 53, he has survived two bouts of cancer, the second a brain tumor that, he told the BBC, “was quite likely to get me.”
In 2016 he left an oncology ward in a wheelchair, bald and wearing a medical mask, to vote for Britain to leave the European Union. He was unsure how long he would remain in politics, he said, a shift that coincided with a “radicalization process among Brexiters” who were increasingly open to a no-deal exit.
“People have become entrenched in their views, and radicalized in their views,” he said. “So the friction isn’t just a normal rubbing along friction, it’s a clash of one heavy force against another, and so it’s more violent.”
He added, “I wasn’t in the mood to buckle under pressure.”
This standoff points to a difference between the British system and the American, in which parties choose candidates through primaries. In Britain, candidates must be approved by the party association in their constituency, a group sometimes described as the “selectorate.”
In the Conservative Party, in particular, this group is both influential and very small. The party membership has shrunk steadily since the early 1950s, dropping from around three million to roughly 100,000 now.
Two-thirds are men, nearly all are white, nearly half are over the age of 65 and most describe themselves as “very right-wing,” according to research by the 
Tim Bale, who leads the Party Members Project, was surprised in December when a poll of Conservative members found that 
Though the members have no formal say on party policy, Mr. Bale said, they can “exert considerable moral pressure on lawmakers,” who are expected to maintain close ties with the activists who do the bulk of on-the-ground campaigning.
Lawmakers are “very risk-averse,” he added. “They will, to be honest, be scared of losing their seat, and no amount of polling by pointy-headed experts will convince them otherwise.”
Mr. Boles’s relationship with his own conservative association is now in shreds. Mr. Sagar, a retired hotel executive who leads the local association, told 
“Now you see, he’s gone out of the door tonight now, he’s not lingered five or 10 minutes,” he said. “What would it hurt to spend five or 10 minutes with the association? He doesn’t do it enough.”
Mr. Boles’s constituency is in true-blue Tory territory, an agricultural region that voted this month to erect a 20-foot statue of its most famous daughter, Margaret Thatcher. The statue was originally intended to stand beside Parliament in London, but Mrs. Thatcher remains so controversial that plans were set aside over fears of vandalism.
Though they have politely accepted Mr. Boles — an openly gay Oxford graduate and party modernizer who pushed through legislation on gay marriage — he, like many lawmakers recommended by party headquarters, has no roots in the area. Local activists are demanding a bigger role in this process, said Tony Travers, a professor of government at the London School of Economics.
“Major parties would helicopter in some barrister from London, saying, ‘This would be a good constituency for you,’ they would doff their caps, get elected and go straight back to London,” he said. In the churn raised by Brexit, he said, both parties are moving toward a model in which lawmakers take instruction from voters, and cease to make decisions on the basis of their own judgment.
If Mr. Boles is indeed deselected over his Brexit stance, it will mark a sharp movement in that direction. The process requires Mr. Boles to seek reselection from the constituency leadership — he has 21 days from Monday’s vote to do so — and could take weeks or months, culminating in a secret ballot of the local party association’s executive committee. Mr. Sagar said members were “angry,” but that deselection was not underway at this point.
Mr. Boles seemed unconcerned, but acknowledged that fear of deselection does “blunt the daring” of some of colleagues.
He said he had been struck, when he sponsored the amendment blocking a no-deal exit last month, by how many of them 
“I knew there were individuals who had told me in absolute terms that they were with us, who weren’t when the moment came,” he said. He said he had not asked them why.
“I didn’t bother to inquire, because I was too furious,” he said.