
William Taylor
Earlier, Mr. Trump took to Twitter to 
The move, which came after 
Russia, which rescued the government of President Bashar al-Assad of Syria with brutal airstrikes over the last four years, now looks to be the arbiter of the power balance there, days after President Trump left a power vacuum with his sudden withdrawal of U.S. troops.
Lawmakers refused to put legislation enacting Brexit on a fast track to passage, which could have enabled Mr. Johnson to meet his deadline of leaving the E.U. by Oct. 31.
The E.U. now has to decide how long an extension to grant Britain. Mr. Johnson said that if the deadlock slipped into next year, he would rather pull the legislation altogether and face the voters, calculating that he could win a popular mandate for a swift Brexit.
A longtime Democrat who has run two of the party’s recent conventions says she has been hearing that question lately.
Hillary Clinton, Michael Bloomberg, Sherrod Brown, John Kerry, even Michelle Obama are being whispered about as 
It’s a persistent question. But Deval Patrick, the former Massachusetts governor, had a message for angst-ridden Democrats: “Everybody needs to calm down, it’s early. It’s so early.”
There is growing evidence that administrative changes aimed at fighting fraud and waste — and rising fears of deportation in immigrant communities — are to blame. Above, Kristin Johnson with her son Elijah, who was dropped from Medicaid coverage.
At the same time, prices for 
Kevin McAllister, above in January, is 
And WeWork is 
But the process requires enormous amounts of energy, and therefore is largely limited to more affluent countries. Researchers are now 
As the 
Our statistics show a somewhat more optimistic picture: one of strong, local fan bases, and a national following that could have a lot more room to grow.
Tonight’s game begins just after 8 p.m. Eastern. 
The fast-food chain has spent hundreds of millions of dollars on artificial intelligence and machine learning in the hope of 
Some of its drive-throughs, for example, might promote soda rather than coffee on a hot afternoon. And it has tested technology that can recognize license-plate numbers, allowing the company to tailor suggested purchases to a customer’s previous orders.
Domino’s Pizza and other restaurant chains have the same ambition, though they have stopped short of buying tech start-ups, as McDonald’s is doing.
Three Times food experts — the restaurant critic Pete Wells, the cooking columnist Melissa Clark and the reporter Julia Moskin — lined up six national brands of the new vegan burgers for a blind tasting.
They tested two kinds of meatless patties at home, those assembled from an array of starches, fats, salts, sweeteners and synthetic proteins, and those based on whole grains and vegetables.
Good news for burger lovers: One of the six scored four and a half stars out of five. 
Have an appetizing evening.