
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering possible collaboration among
Jeremy Corbyn, the leader of Britain’s Labour Party, agreed at a meeting of opposition lawmakers to 
Mr. Johnson has sought to use the threat of a no-deal Brexit as leverage in talks with the European Union. His office railed against the opposition’s plan, calling it “utterly perverse.”
But the prospect of a new Brexit deal before Oct. 31 remains slim. And for advocates of staying in the European Union, the word that lawmakers opposed to a no-deal exit were ready to collaborate was a welcome sign.
Hours after leaders of some of the world’s wealthiest countries pledged more than $22 million, Brazil’s government angrily rejected the offer, in effect telling those nations to mind their own business — only to later 
The president of France made the most of his role as host at the Group of 7 meeting, seemingly everywhere at once, 
He wooed President Trump over a long, private lunch; he flew in the Iranian foreign minister for unannounced talks; he seized his role as defender of the global climate, telling Brazilians to get themselves a new president; and he even prompted 
The German bank told a federal appeals court that 
Although the identities of the people or organizations were redacted in the publicly available document, current and former bank officials have said Deutsche Bank 
Mr. Trump broke with decades of precedent by not releasing his tax returns while running for president, claiming that he could not do so because he was under audit.
Many LinkedIn users welcome connections to strangers. That makes them particularly vulnerable to spy recruiters.
Western intelligence officials say Chinese agents 
And a pediatrician looks at the debate about 
You have to go way back to find the source of the 
By many geological accounts, about 180 million years ago, an enormous land mass broke across the middle. After 40 million more years, the southern part — now South America and Africa — also split.
Many scientists believe that 
The collision of tectonic plates that raised the Andes roughly 15 million years ago may have helped block the Amazon’s flow (west then, the opposite of today’s direction), creating a vast inland sea — and a new evolutionary challenge for former saltwater inhabitants.
The Amazon basin drained when the Ice Age reduced global water levels, leaving pockets of water and flora — and more opportunities for species to subdivide.
The flood-drain cycle appeared to occur again about 6,000 years ago.
The result: one of the 
That’s it for this briefing. Thanks to the readers who pointed out that we made a mistake in Monday’s Back Story. The number of states that were eventually created, wholly or in part, from the Louisiana Purchase was 15, not 14.
See you next time.
— Melina