
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering 
North Korea tested 
The police 
The march organizer said he would appeal the decision and, if rejected, would walk the protest route by himself. Others suggested they’d find excuses to gather in Yuen Long, raising the specter of more clashes.
The ban on the weekend protest — which had been called to denounce last week’s mob violence and the anemic police action against the attackers — will likely deepen distrust of the Hong Kong police, which has been widely criticized for using brutal force during previous demonstrations.
Britain’s new prime minister 
In a speech in Parliament on Thursday, less than 100 days before the nation is expected to crash out of the E.U., Mr. Johnson outlined tough new Brexit demands, including the “abolition” of a so-called “backstop” plan that would have 
The cabinet reshuffle and Mr. Johnson’s overblown oratory in Parliament appeared intended to send one message to the E.U. — he is serious about leaving without a deal if necessary.
China’s increasing demand has driven a spike in Russian timber exports over the last few years, bringing 
The timber rush has been embraced by both Beijing and Moscow, which have
But the arrangement has fueled fears of rapid deforestation and pollution in Siberia without much regard for the local population.
In the past five years, about 100 Chinese-operated mills have opened in just one logging town of just 100,000 people. 
President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, in an attempt to consolidate his grip on power, has sought to dismantle the country’s academic sector. 
Since 2017, about 
And technology that allows hotel guests to 
The 
Garlic — a close cousin to onions and leeks — has been consumed by humans for thousands of years as both food and medicine. Hippocrates prescribed garlic to treat a variety of conditions, and the ancient Greeks gave garlic to both Olympic athletes and 
The jury is still out on many health claims (
But do leave your 
That’s it for this briefing. Have a great weekend.
— Alisha