
The storm, upgraded to a Category 1 in the afternoon, slammed the Virgin Islands, above, but skirted Puerto Rico. By Monday, it could threaten Florida as a Category 3 hurricane. 
And here are some 
The attack came the day President Trump authorized but called off a retaliatory airstrike after Iran shot down an American drone. The downside, the officials said: It cost the U.S. access to a critical network used by the Revolutionary Guards, Iran’s paramilitary force. Above, a Guard boat swept near a British-flagged ship this month. 
And an administration official responded to reports that Mr. Trump has been telling aides to get his wall on the southern border built by whatever means necessary, 
While Mr. Trump has publicly discussed seizing land for the wall, the official said, the president was joking: “He winks when he does it.”
The surprise move was derided by opponents as undemocratic and possibly unconstitutional, and revealed a pugnacious, ruthless side of Mr. Johnson, 
The return of Giuseppe Conte, above, is part of a deal struck by the Five Star Movement and a former vicious foe, the Democratic Party, that sidelines the hard-right nationalist leader, 
Whether the new coalition lasts — or can function — is unclear. But the turnabout was a relief to the European establishment after more than a year of euroskeptic provocations, anti-migrant crackdowns and flouting of the bloc’s financial rules.
They’re spreading in the Arctic, Central Africa and Indonesia. In Alaska, fires have consumed more than 2.5 million acres of tundra and snow forest. 
In Brazil, hundreds of environmental protection workers warned that budget and personnel cuts 
So instead of heading to Harvard, above, Ismail B. Ajjawi, 17, was sent back to Lebanon. He told The Harvard Crimson that his phone and laptop were searched before his visa was revoked.
Free-speech advocates widely criticized the situation and the Trump administration policy requiring that nearly all U.S. visa applicants submit their social media user names.
“The chilling effects of incidents like these ripple through communities far beyond Harvard’s incoming freshman class,” a lawyer said.
As the indoor cycling company 
Peloton, which made its offering prospectus public this week, is privately valued at $4 billion. The company is expanding into other fitness areas, hoping to ride larger trends as boutique spinning begins to wane, and cheaper competitors and copycats move in.
But its losses have more than quadrupled in the last year, and it’s embroiled in legal fights over music and patents.
That’s what one of our interns managed this summer. The binge reminded her of the power of great storytelling, and the value of learning the ins and outs of cheap tickets. 
Feel like you’ve tried everything in New York? Consider 
In Italy, scientists were able to 
In Australia, a rare and extreme reproductive strategy has been identified among small, mouselike marsupials called kalutas. For the males, 
And California’s beloved 
We may never be able to settle the debate over whether the Aperol spritz is worthy of consumption, but one thing is sure: Spritzes are springing free from the standard recipes. In London they’re made with tequila; in Los Angeles, with strawberry beer.
Here are 
Pair one with this 
Have a delectable night.