
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering a pivotal Tuesday for Prime Minister 
In what could prove to be a pivotal day in the Brexit saga, Prime Minister Boris Johnson will 
Though the foreign secretary, Dominic Raab, on Sunday predicted that there would be enough support for Mr. Johnson’s plan, the numbers are so close that no one can be certain of the outcome.
If Parliament rejects that timetable, it will be almost impossible to avoid another delay. And it would give opponents time to amend the legislation, like adding a referendum on the plan or a customs union stipulation. 
ISIS stands to gain from America’s withdrawal from Syria.
President Trump’s pullout from Syria has handed the 
Although Mr. Trump declared victory over ISIS, the group retains as many as 18,000 “members” in Iraq and Syria, according to a recent Pentagon estimate. Its self-proclaimed caliph is still at large, and U.S. officials say they are now losing their ability to collect ground intelligence.
On Monday, a long convoy of 
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu gave up his attempt to form a government, 
Mr. Gantz, leader of the centrist Blue and White party, has 28 days to try. If he fails, Israel could be forced into an unprecedented third election or a unity government of some sort. 
A political newcomer, Mr. Gantz has no clear path to assembling the required 61-seat majority in Israel’s Parliament.
President Trump did something unusual Saturday: He announced a reversal of his plans to host the Group of 7 summit at his resort outside Miami, after facing a fierce backlash. Our reporters looked at 
Amid the bipartisan disapproval over Mr. Trump’s move to withdraw troops from Syria, and the highly charged impeachment inquiry, Republicans were not eager to answer ethics questions and defend the appropriateness of the president’s decision to hold the summit at the Doral resort, above. “We just didn’t need this,” one Republican leader said.
Our 
Long before appearing in 
Its creator, L.L. Zamenhof, was from what is now Poland. He hoped that Esperanto would be adopted universally as a way to bridge international differences. If everyone spoke the same language, he reasoned, “education, ideals, convictions, aims, would be the same too, and all nations would be united in a common brotherhood.”
Zamenhof was 
Esperanto has a Latin-based alphabet of 28 letters and relatively simple grammar rules.
While no country recognizes it as an official language, Esperanto has recently experienced a surge of interest online, including on 
As an Esperantist would say, “Bonan matenon!” (“Good morning!”)
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Melina