
Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union has provoked months of bitter division, but on Friday there was a break in the routine: an outbreak of affection and good will.
In a tenderly written missive to Britons, more than two dozen leading figures in Germany — including 
“After the horrors of the Second World War, Britain did not give up on us,” said the open 
“This we, as Germans, have not forgotten and we are grateful,” the letter went on, concluding that “Britons should know: From the bottom of our hearts, we want them to stay.”
Norbert Röttgen, head of the German Parliament’s Committee on Foreign Affairs, who co-wrote the letter, said the signers decided they needed to say something after this week’s defeat of the British prime minister’s Brexit proposal.
“The time was ripe to make sure that we raise our voice, and that we try to make it a German voice, to let the Brits know that while we fully respect what they decide, we do consider it a European affair,” Mr. Röttgen said. “We wanted to say what we feel, to express our convictions and our deep emotions.”
[
The intervention comes at a critical moment in Britain following the crushing rejection on Tuesday of Prime Minister Theresa May’s plan for withdrawal from the European Union, or Brexit. There is growing speculation that the deadlock could lead to a general election or a second referendum that might reverse the whole idea.
It is unclear whether a lovebomb from figures as varied as the Airbus chief, Thomas Enders, and the punk rock singer Campino will have much impact. But at least one signatory to the letter commands some name recognition in Britain: Jens Lehmann, the former goalkeeper of Germany’s national soccer team.
Behind the initiative lies concern in Berlin over the prospect that Britain may leave the European Union without an agreement, with economically damaging consequences for the entire continent.
While the European Union — and especially France — took a tough line in negotiating the withdrawal, Britain and Germany have often agreed on economic issues in Brussels. But Brexit is destined to change the internal balance within the European Union, removing a country that has often been useful to Berlin politically and a big financial contributor to the bloc.
Britons’ reaction to the letter was mixed, with some commenting on its folksy focus on the country’s “legendary black humor,” drinking tea with milk, Christmas pantomime and driving on the left.
As enemies in two world wars in the 20th century, the two countries have a complicated relationship. Germany’s affection for Britain is not always reciprocated, despite widespread respect for the German postwar economic miracle and its modern-day success.
Sporting rivalry is particularly fierce in soccer, where the record has at times been so grim for England that Gary Lineker, the TV host and former England international player, once described it as a game where “22 men chase a ball for 90 minutes and at the end, the Germans always win.”
Whether the intervention will help or hinder the pro-Europeans in Britain’s Brexit debate is a moot point, as the British are prickly about anything that could be construed as outside interference in political discussions.
Speaking to reporters in London, Tony Blair, the former prime minister, welcomed the letter, saying it redressed the impression that Brexit negotiations were frequently confrontational.
“A clear statement acknowledging what is clearly true — that it’s better for Europe as well as for Britain that we change Brexit — is important,” said Mr. Blair, who is arguing for a second Brexit referendum.
He added that he believed the initiative had come about because, with Parliament deadlocked, there was an increased possibility of a second referendum. However, he added, “If we do decide that we want to think again, I think it’s important that Europe indicates that its politics has changed in the last 30 months and that means particularly addressing the question of immigration.”
Those on the other side of the debate, of course, took the opposite view. One Brexit hard-liner in Parliament, John Redwood, wrote on Twitter that members of the German establishment had shown “their scorn for democracy,” were taking the British “for fools” and wanted to keep Britain in the European Union only because of its annual budget payments.
Mr. Röttgen dismissed such criticism as entirely predictable: “That this letter would be used and abused by those who are so desperate to leave, under any circumstance, that they reject the idea of reconsidering anything, this was quite clear.”
Though the letter sounded genuine and sincere, some Germans believe Britain has become such an awkward partner in the European Union that it is better outside the bloc.
When Andrea Nahles, one signer of the letter, wrote on Twitter this week of her regret at the implications of the defeat of Mrs. May’s plan, the response was mixed, and much less sentimental than the letter published on Friday.
A British TV news anchor, Matt Frei, suggested that the authentic view of Brexit in Germany might be a little less diplomatic. On Twitter he described a conversation in Berlin that drew a parallel to Prince Philip’s car accident this week.
“Overheard in a Berlin bakery,” he wrote, “Brexit is like a 97 year old royal behind the wheel. You know it’s a bad idea but are too polite to stop it.”