
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering a potential way forward for the
Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s efforts to answer the million-dollar question behind Brexit negotiations could determine whether he achieves his goal of swiftly taking Britain out of the European Union — or if he even survives in office.
Though he denies it, Mr. Johnson 
When Ursula von der Leyen, the incoming chief of the European Commission
Critics denounced the phrasing as an echo of far-right rhetoric that identifies Europe as white and Christian, and that frames migration as a threat. Pressure was mounting to scrap the title altogether. 
The Democratic candidates met on a Texas stage last night to make their cases for the U.S. presidency. The field was smaller than in previous debates, but candidates still had work to do to 
Many seized on opportunities to attack former Vice President Joe Biden, who leads in polls. He punched back more effectively than in earlier debates, but his answers were sometimes convoluted. Our politics reporter summed up one of his wide-ranging statements in 
Floods, landslides, cyclones and other extreme weather events have 
The territory that has been racked by protests is increasingly irked by the symbols of the mainland. At a recent World Cup qualifying soccer match, thousands of people turned their backs and booed when the Chinese anthem played. (A semiautonomous territory, Hong Kong does not have its own anthem.)
Instead, 
And readers who are caring for elderly parents 
The United States government said this week that it would 
Menthol cigarettes are particularly 
Canada banned menthol cigarettes in 2017, and a European Union prohibition goes into effect next year. A U.S. proposal to do the same, announced last year, 
Only a day after the Trump administration declared its plan to remove flavored e-cigarettes from the market, there were already signs that some companies were considering legal challenges or lobbying efforts to 
One Juul official said the company was deliberating whether to challenge the proposed restrictions, specifically on mint and menthol. And stock of the tobacco giant Altria held firm on the belief among some investors that the two flavors would not be banned, according to an analyst at CFRA Research. 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Melina