
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering the latest dramatic twist in 
The House of Commons just passed a bill that 
The bill now goes to the House of Lords, which must give its assent.
Hours later, Parliament also rejected Mr. Johnson’s request for a snap election, at least until the no-deal Brexit measure becomes the law of the land, leaving the prime minister bruised by three consecutive rebukes in two days. 
Wednesday’s announcement by the territory’s leader, Carrie Lam, that the government would formally withdraw a contentious extradition bill was 
A 16-year-old boy died on Tuesday, weeks after witnesses said security officers aiming at protesters hit him in the face with buckshot. It was the 
The teenager, Asrar Ahmed Khan, had just finished playing cricket on the evening of Aug. 6 when security forces opened fire on a crowd. Security forces have now barricaded his neighborhood, bracing for another outbreak of protests.
The crisis over Iran’s nuclear program 
Now Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is flexing military muscle, including by launching raids into Syria against Iranian and Hezbollah troops and arms stores. With Israeli elections on Sept. 17, Mr. Netanyahu could be bluffing, but some worry that Mr. Trump could give him a green light to attack Iran itself.
With two major performances this year — in “Once Upon a Time … in Hollywood” and “Ad Astra” — the 55-year-old actor and producer is beginning to turn to his father for inspiration not only onscreen but also off, where he has weathered relationship issues and gotten sober.
“In some ways, I’m copying him,” 
And our tech adviser shows how easy it is to 
When Carrie Lam, Hong Kong’s chief executive, released a major announcement on Wednesday, she made the video statement 
That’s the norm in the territory — at least for now.
Dozens of languages are spoken by Hong Kong’s richly mixed population, but most are not official. For most of the 156 years of British colonial rule, English was the only sanctioned language. In 1974, Chinese was added. But which?
There are 
But Mandarin, China’s national language, is growing. Migration from the mainland surged following Britain handover in 1997, and Mandarin is now a language of instruction in many schools and all but mandatory in many jobs.
Ciao for now. See you next time.
— Alisha