
Good morning.
The Muslim call to prayer 
Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern will attend a prayer service near Al Noor Mosque, one of the two mosques where a gunman killed 50 people.
She cited the gun controls Australia set in motion after a mass shooting in 1996: a mix of buybacks, registration and outright bans that severely reduced mass shootings.
While families were still mourning their loved ones killed in the Lion Air crash in October, they were herded into a hotel conference room and told to sign a document to receive a government-mandated compensation of 1.3 billion rupiah, about $91,600, for loss of life.
But the payment came with conditions. Many say they weren’t allowed time to study the document and didn’t know then that it included a clause 
Those conditions are now being questioned by legal experts. An Indonesian aviation act from 2011 specifies that heirs who receive government-mandated payments shouldn’t have limits on their right to sue the carrier or other entities involved.
The European Union is considering 
Discussions in Brussels about the new deadline are still ongoing. Follow our correspondent, 
But an extension would only offer a flimsy reprieve: President Emmanuel Macron of France warned that if Parliament didn’t support Mrs. May’s withdrawal agreement next week, the country would be headed for a no-deal exit. Thousands of personnel are expected to begin preparing for that dreaded outcome on Monday.
“So far Parliament has done everything possible to avoid making a choice,” the frustrated prime minister said in a speech that critics described as “toxic” and dangerous.
Small countries, corporations and even wealthy individuals all have a new weapon at their disposal: 
This growing and barely-governed world of digital combat has enabled governments not only to hack terrorist groups and drug cartels but is also being used for darker impulses, like targeting activists and journalists, with the sophistication that was once the preserve of major world powers.
The F.B.I. is now investigating one of these firms, DarkMatter, after a former N.S.A. hacker working there grew concerned about its activities and contacted the F.B.I, a twist that reflects the murky new industry.
What do lichens and politics have in common?
As you may remember from chemistry class in school, a litmus test determines a solution’s relative acidity. But the phrase is also used metaphorically to refer to a character-defining political issue, and it has been popping up in coverage of the race for the Democratic presidential nomination.
The chemical test, in use since the Middle Ages, employs a dye derived from lichens to determine whether a solution is more acidic or more alkaline.
The phrase developed its political connotation in the 20th century. It appeared in The New York Times 
This year, “litmus test” has appeared in The Times to refer to, among other things, 