
Good morning. 
Prime Minister Theresa May returned to Parliament with 
Infuriating some lawmakers, it looked a lot like her initial plan, which was voted down last week in the most resounding parliamentary defeat in British history.
President Trump, faced with increasing backlash over the longest shutdown in U.S. history, 
Democrats called it “hostage taking” and refused to negotiate until the government reopens.
Some of the 800,000 furloughed federal employees are turning to 
The Chinese economy grew by 
But many economists, citing detailed data, see more slowing than government figures show.
Retail figures slowed markedly in the second half of the year, weighed down by a steep tumble in car and smartphone sales. Activity at factories has slowed as the trade war with the U.S. begins to bite. And the real estate market has stagnated.
A just-published study warns that the ice sheet covering the massive island, which lies mainly above the Arctic Circle, is melting at such an accelerated rate that it may become 
The study’s authors found that ice loss in 2012 was nearly four times the rate in 2003, adding to research showing that the melting is speeding up as the warming increases. Another study has found Greenland’s ice loss had reached its fastest rate in at least 350 years.
The Australian Open, once the least grand of tennis’s four Grand Slam events, has fully caught up.
When the tournament 
Jet travel made the trip easier. But for decades, low prize money and dates around the Christmas holidays kept many players above the Equator. Chris Evert played the Australian Open just six times; John McEnroe five; Bjorn Borg once.
Over time, the prize money and ranking points increased, and the tournament shifted to the third and fourth weeks of January. In 1988, its home moved to the brand-new Melbourne Park. Today, the “Grand Slam of Asia-Pacific” lures business support and fans from across the region.
And now the stars line up. Serena Williams is seeking her eighth title and Novak Djokovic is vying for his seventh. Catch up with our latest coverage 