
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering the 
Ten Democratic candidates promised on Wednesday to take aggressive action to combat global warming during 
Many candidates embraced the idea of taxing carbon dioxide pollution, a policy that most environmental economists agree is the most effective way to cut emissions but that has drawn intense political opposition. They also vowed to undo Trump administration environmental policies and promote renewable energy. 
The Carolinas braced for dangerous winds, rain and storm surge as Dorian 
We 
A looming election seems to be the last political mechanism 
This week, Parliament voted to take a “no-deal” Brexit off the table, dealing a blow to Prime Minister Boris Johnson. Lawmakers also rejected Mr. Johnson’s request for an early election — at least for now. It was the 
Amazon directs its destinations, deadlines and routes, but when it crashes, the retail giant often escapes responsibility, 
More than 60 accidents since June 2015 resulted in serious injuries, including 10 deaths. And that could be only a small fraction of the actual number: Many drivers don’t sue, and those who do can’t always tell when Amazon is involved.
Germany’s nudist movement has survived Hitler, Communism and Instagram. Entire stretches of German waterfronts are designated as nudist beaches. There are sporting events like nude yoga and nude sledding. For many, 
“Germans are both afraid of freedom and deeply desire it,” said John C. Kornblum, a former U.S. ambassador to Germany. “When people walk down the beach naked, it allows them to feel a little rebellious.” 
Our Berlin bureau chief found that reporting the article involved tricky logistics: 
And our tech adviser shows how easy it is to 
When Carrie Lam, Hong Kong’s chief executive, released a major announcement on Wednesday, she made the statement 
That’s the norm in the territory — at least for now.
Dozens of languages are spoken by Hong Kong’s richly mixed population, but few are official. For most of the 156 years of British colonial rule, English was the only sanctioned language. In 1974, Chinese was added. But which?
There are 
But Mandarin, China’s national language, is growing. Migration from the mainland surged after Hong Kong returned to Chinese rule in 1997, and Mandarin is now a language of instruction in many schools and all but mandatory in many jobs.
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Claire