
Good morning. 
President Trump landed in 
On the eve of his meeting with Mr. Kim, 
For the first time in five decades, Indian warplanes crossed into Pakistan.
India said it had struck “the biggest training camp” of Jaish-e-Mohammed, a terrorist group that claimed responsibility for this month’s suicide bombing in the Kashmir Valley.
But Pakistan’s chief military spokesman said the jets just dipped in and out of its airspace and dropped a payload in a forested area, doing little damage. That view is supported by military analysts and two Western security officials.
But analysts warned that Pakistan could still retaliate. Today, the country’s prime minister, Imran Khan, will meet with the National Command Authority — the body that oversees the deployment and management of Pakistan’s nuclear arms.
The British prime minister said Tuesday that Parliament should have 
Her hand was forced when rebels in her Conservative government threatened to vote for a forced extension of talks with the bloc.
Sentencing proceedings for Cardinal George Pell, the highest ranking Roman Catholic cleric to be convicted of sexual abuse, are expected to begin today. The process could take days. 
The cardinal, who was an adviser to Pope Francis, is facing anywhere from a handful of years to a maximum 50-year prison term after being convicted in December of sexually abusing two 13-year-old choirboys. He has been 
This week, the U.S. vice president, Mike Pence, accused Uruguay of being a “
A reader, Annelise Gasser of Quebec, asked how a tiny South American nation acquired such diplomatic significance.
To start, Uruguay is arguably the only South American nation with clean democratic credentials that maintains decent relations with Mr. Maduro. Credibility with both Maduro supporters and opponents make it a natural intermediary in any negotiated transition.
Uruguay’s soft approach stems from a live-and-let-live attitude, developed over two centuries of coexistence with much bigger neighbors. The country has long led the region in progressive politics, 
While hard-liners in Miami threaten military intervention to oust Mr. Maduro, on the laid-back streets of Montevideo, residents resolve most of their problems over a slow barbecue and the ever-present thermos of caffeine-rich 