
Supported by
Here’s what you need to know at the end of the day.
For one, the impeachment inquiry into President Trump is advancing. Voters will be eyeing how the candidates balance attacks on Mr. Trump with questions about Joe Biden’s role in the overseas business interests of his son Hunter.
For another, Mr. Trump’s decisions on Syria have thrown U.S. foreign policy a curveball. And interest will beis high in Bernie Sanders’s performance after his heart attack two weeks ago.
Russian forces moved into 
Debatable, from The Times Opinion section, examines 
To follow President Trump’s abrupt order last week to withdraw, the Pentagon is faced with hastily 
Mr. Trump is 
Democratic leaders plan to huddle with their caucus this evening to give updates on the state of the impeachment inquiry and discuss the possibility of holding a floor vote to authorize it. 
During the day, House investigators questioned a State Department Ukraine expert, 
He — like some others who’ve testified so far — had deep concerns about the issue at the heart of the inquiry: the pressure being exerted on Ukraine by President Trump and his private lawyer, Rudolph Giuliani, to investigate Mr. Trump’s political rivals.
Mr. Giuliani refused to comply with a congressional subpoena for documents. LINK TKVice President Mike Pence and Mr. Giuliani are 
Hopes for a breakthrough are surging, lifting the pound. But Prime Minister Boris Johnson is still frantically trying to bridge a gap over the thorny issue of 
If he manages it, he’ll still need to win over Parliament. “There is a robust trade-off here,” said one person briefed said. “Technically, the deal can be done, but can the politics deliver?”
Gregory Rodriguez, a college student, is one of the nearly 1,300 people in the U.S. who have become victims of vaping. 
Like him, about 70 percent are young men. And like him, many vaped THC, the psychoactive ingredient in marijuana — but most have not told their stories. Mr. Rodriguez says he slipped into doing it constantly, inhaling enormous amounts of THC and craving more.
HAnd then 
6. Hong Kong protesters are targeting Starbucks. Apple could be next.¶
They are targeting businesses they see, rightly or wrongly, as sympathetic to with the authoritarian Chinese Communist Party for boycotts and sometimes vandalism.¶
“All corporations here are walking on eggshells when it comes to what they say, whether it’s about Hong Kong or about the mainland,” said David Webb, a shareholder activist in the territory. ¶
Also, LeBron James is getting some backlash via social media for suggesting that an N.B.A. team official’s pro-Hong Kong tweet could have imperiled American basketball players in China. Like many of the league’s star players, he has business interests in China through sponsors like Nike.¶
And here’s what we know about “phase 1” of the limited China-U.S. trade deal President Trump announced Friday.
7
They are hitting businesses they see, rightly or wrongly, as sympathetic to the authoritarian Chinese Communist Party 
“All corporations here are walking on eggshells when it comes to what they say, whether it’s about Hong Kong or about the mainland,” said David Webb, a shareholder activist in the territory.
Also, 
With a blockbuster Leonardo da Vinci exhibition opening next week, the Louvre Museum in Paris will offer 
The seven-minute VR headset tour will be an intimate encounter, including a virtual flight aboard a wing-flapping glider da Vinci sketched.
It will be housed in a small gallery room near the main da Vinci exhibition, apart from the painting itself, which is only 30 inches tall and shielded by glass.
Lower prices and increased supply are boosting the U.S. consumption of shrimp, now up to about 4.4 pounds per person per year.annually.
But consumers looking for both the best taste and the most responsible supply chain have their work cut out for them, our food writer Melissa Clark explains. Despite their reputations, 
Whether farmed or wild, the cheaper the shrimp, the more likely it is to have been treated with sodium tripolyphosphate and sodium bisulfite. Here’s 
This hand, created by the artificial intelligence lab OpenAI, solved a Rubik’s Cube in four minutes.
Even though a computer can do it in onea second, the demonstration showed advances in both 
“Solving a Rubik’s Cube is not very useful, but it shows how far we can push these techniques,” said one of the researchers said.
Have a futuristic evening.