
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning,
We’re covering a shift in 
Whatever deal Washington and Beijing reach on trade, global companies have already started shifting their supply chains from China, just as some Trump administration officials had wanted.
Despite President Trump’s promises to bring jobs back to the U.S., most of the work is moving to countries with lower costs. China will remain a vital manufacturing hub, but chief executives say the trade war 
For months, the aircraft manufacturer dismissed concerns about the anti-stall system on its 737 Max jets, saying pilots could avoid problems by following a checklist.
But investigators’ preliminary findings from the Ethiopian Airlines crash last month showed that the pilots could not regain control 
Signaling his intent to put allies on a traditionally independent body, Mr. Trump said on Thursday that he 
It’s the second time in weeks that the president has suggested candidates with deeply held political views for a Fed seat. Last month, Mr. Trump said he planned to nominate Stephen Moore, a conservative economist who advised his campaign and has, like the president, become a vocal critic of the central bank’s rate increases.
Most casual listeners are familiar with hip-hop’s 1 percent — Jay-Z, Drake, Cardi B. But Nipsey Hussle, who was fatally shot in Los Angeles last weekend, 
Many stay close to home for financial and personal reasons, but doing so can make them reachable targets. “Sometimes keeping it real is too much,” said Wack 100, a prominent rap manager. “When you’re that accessible, that common, then it becomes easy to get to you
Polling suggests that anti-Semitic attitudes may be no more widespread than in the past, particularly in Western Europe. But extremists have seemingly become more brazen, as in the torch-lit march pictured above in Charlottesville, Va., in 2017. 
That climate is being used for political ends by 
Also, if you feel like you don’t have the time to read, try 
The cost of internal strife is a major concern to China’s leaders, who have only to look to the Taiping Rebellion of the 1850s. That internal war, which claimed 20 million or more lives, remains one of the world’s bloodiest.
The mass internments in Xinjiang reflect the leadership’s view that the religion and culture of Uighurs and other Muslim minorities are widely “infected” by antigovernment sentiments that could foment unrest and terrorism.
Uighurs — a Turkic people — have had an uneasy, sometimes violent, relationship with the Chinese Communist authorities since 1949.
In the 1980s and 1990s, the government allowed more space for the Uighurs’ language and customs. But policies became increasingly hard-line, especially after ethnic rioting in 2009 that killed at least 200 people. In 2014, more than 30 people were killed in an attack by Uighurs in southwest China. There were many smaller-scale attacks as well.
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Chris