
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning,
We’re covering President Trump’s reversal of 
Mr. Trump said on Thursday that the U.S. should 
Mr. Trump’s announcement on Twitter came after persistent pressure from the Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, an ally who is fighting for his political life with an election scheduled for next month. While popular in Israel and among some U.S. lawmakers, Mr. Trump’s decision is likely to be condemned almost everywhere else. 
European Union officials agreed on Thursday to 
The agreement effectively averted a disorderly and chaotic departure at the end of next week, yet such a break remains a possibility.
A week after the terrorist attack on two mosques that left 50 people dead, 
“This terrorist sought to tear our nation apart with an evil ideology that has torn the world apart — but instead we have shown that New Zealand is unbreakable,” said Imam Gamal Fouda of Al Noor Mosque, one of the two attacked.
The country’s national airline said today that it had 
A spokesman for the carrier, Garuda Indonesia, said that its passengers had lost confidence in the model. But he acknowledged that it would be difficult to cancel a signed agreement.
Garuda’s deal was for 49 planes, and estimated to be worth $4.9 billion. A Boeing spokesman declined to comment.
Small countries, corporations and wealthy individuals have a new weapon at their disposal: privatized spying through companies that hire former intelligence operatives. 
We also have a checklist to help you 
What do lichens and politics have in common?
As you may remember from chemistry class, a litmus test determines a solution’s relative acidity. But the phrase is also used metaphorically to refer to a character-defining political issue, and it has been popping up in coverage of the race for the Democratic presidential nomination.
The chemical test, in use since the Middle Ages, employs a dye derived from lichens to determine whether a solution is more acidic or alkaline.
The political application of the phrase appeared in The Times 
This year, “litmus test” has appeared in The Times to refer to 
This week is the Times Magazine’s special Voyages Issue, featuring 
Enjoy the weekend. See you next time.
— Chris