
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning. 
When the Morandi Bridge in Genoa, Italy, collapsed last August, killing 43 people, it set off a criminal inquiry and a public relations crisis for the Benettons, the Italian family most famous for its eponymous clothing brand. They control Autostrade per l’Italia, or Highways for Italy, a privatized road operator that managed the bridge and operates more than half of Italy’s 4,000 miles of toll roads.
Though the Benettons are not accused of any wrongdoing, they are 
More than 76,000 migrants 
Customs and Border Protection also declared sweeping changes to procedures for guaranteeing adequate medical care for migrants, 
 
Britain’s attorney general, Geoffrey Cox, was in Brussels on Tuesday evening to try to renegotiate Britain’s deal for leaving the E.U. before the March 29 deadline for withdrawal. He had a big, familiar ask: 
The backstop keeps Britain under the E.U. customs system until a frictionless border can somehow be created between Ireland, an E.U. member, and Northern Ireland, which is part of the United Kingdom. Many Britons fear the backstop could keep Britain stuck under E.U. rules forever. Mr. Cox wants a rewrite that would give Britain leeway to leave whether or not that meant a hard border falling — which would put Ireland in a precarious position by risking a sectarian explosion. 
On days when he met foreign leaders, haggled over legislation or reportedly pressured the F.B.I. director to drop an investigation into a former aide, President Trump also 
On 11 occasions through 2017, Mr. Trump or his trust cut such checks, and six of them were provided this week to The Times. They have put Mr. Trump in potential legal jeopardy: Mr. Cohen has pleaded guilty to campaign finance violations in connection with the payments to the women, and prosecutors have said that Mr. Trump directed the scheme, identifying him in filings as “Individual 1.” 
Defenders of the president say the checks prove only that Mr. Trump paid his personal lawyer, not that he knew what the money was for, but his accounts of what he knew have been murky.
Thugs: It seems the world is full of them.
Michael Cohen, President Trump’s former personal lawyer, painted himself as a “thug’s thug” in public testimony, 
Leaders like 
The word can be traced to “
It’s believed that for centuries, gangs of thieves and assassins called thugs operated throughout India. In thrall to Kali, the goddess of destruction, they were believed to commit “thuggee” — setting up and often strangling victims.
In the 1800s, the British who were beginning to spread across the country decided to put a stop to them.
Under the leadership of 
Some now question whether thugs were as destructive as reported 