
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering 
After mauling the Bahamas as one of the strongest storms on record in the Atlantic, Hurricane Dorian was expected to approach the United States today as a Category 3 storm with the potential to inflict serious damage from Florida to Virginia and beyond. We’re 
The Bahamas was 
The storm was expected to turn toward the United States and arrive near Florida by late today. Forecasters warned that Dorian, while weakening, “is expected to remain a powerful hurricane during the next couple of days.” 
President Trump has dismissed more than a dozen North Korean missile tests in recent months as “very standard,” and appears unwilling to make statements or take actions that could jeopardize his relationship with Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader. 
But American intelligence officials and outside experts believe the tests have allowed North Korea to develop missiles with 
At least 20 people were reported dead late Monday after 
It remains unclear what started the blaze or whether negligence played any role in fire, which is one of California’s worst maritime disasters in decades.
An especially deadly summer of mass shootings has intensified pressure on lawmakers to take up gun control legislation when they return to Washington next week. Democratic presidential candidates made their case for gun control over the Labor Day weekend, though they 
The Democratic candidates are all trying to increase pressure on President Trump, who indicated an openness to background checks, and Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, who has 
As the veteran Times correspondent Rod Nordland was jogging in India this summer, he collapsed from what turned out to be a malignant brain tumor.
Mr. Nordland 
And we have 
If you’re familiar with Romance languages, you’ll recognize the first syllable of this month as “seven.” That seems to make “September” an odd name for the year’s ninth month.
But it made sense in ancient Rome.
There, 
According to tradition, a calendar reform around 713 B.C. introduced 
In later adjustments, the original fifth and sixth months (which had been pushed to seventh and eighth) were renamed for Julius Caesar and Caesar Augustus: July and August. 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Mike