
Good morning.
We’re covering 
The Trump administration, in a move that could forestall potentially devastating tariffs on American auto imports, is in 
The talks come ahead of a Wednesday deadline for President Trump to decide whether to impose tariffs on foreign cars and car parts, which his administration has declared a national security threat. 
While neither side called it a deal, the carmakers have worked out an understanding with American officials in an effort to delay the tariffs for several months, according to people familiar with the deliberations.
The British prime minister is under fire for 
Unsavory details have been leaking out about how Russian oligarchs funneled money to Conservative Party politicians, spawning conspiracy theories as well as criticism that it deprives British voters of vital information about Russian meddling before another election. 
Hillary Clinton, in London on a book tour with her daughter, Chelsea, criticized Mr. Johnson’s decision in an interview with The Guardian. 
Cannabis-based medicines were approved on Monday for 
Laws on cannabis are generally stricter in Britain than in the rest of Europe. Several countries have decriminalized small amounts of marijuana for recreational use, and others allow medicinal cannabis.
The marijuana-based medicines are restricted to a relatively rare form of childhood epilepsy, multiple sclerosis or chemotherapy-induced vomiting and nausea.
The timeworn art of 
“You can’t get this from an iPhone,” said one man who took his grandchildren to the Théâtre des Marionnettes du Luxembourg, above, one of the oldest in Paris.
The planet Mercury just made news by 
It’s the closest planet to the sun, orbiting in a zippy 88 days. Ancient Romans named it after the speedy messenger of the gods (Hermes to the Greeks). The word “planet” is drawn from 
But the Greeks and Romans weren’t the only ancient cultures fascinated with that planet and the four others we now call the “naked-eye planets,” those visible without magnification. 
For instance, the Chinese named the five 
Eventually, humans realized that what they were standing on was also a planet. What the West ended up calling Earth, the Chinese called Dìqiú (地球), meaning “ball of earth” — or as some jokers put it, “dirt ball.”
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Victoria