
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering
In their first face-to-face meeting, Presidents Vladimir Putin of Russia and Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine reached an agreement on Monday to exchange all prisoners by the end of the year, and to fully implement a cease-fire first agreed to in 2015 but repeatedly broken.
Mr. Zelensky has been under mounting domestic pressure from nationalists who accuse him of capitulating to Russia. But Monday’s meeting in Paris “turned out to be less a walkover for Mr. Putin than a draw,” 
The findings are fodder for both critics and allies of Mr. Trump to claim vindication. Attorney General
Two changes in prime minister, two general elections (including one on Thursday) and a parliamentary paralysis: The political shake-ups driven by Britain’s halting march toward Brexit are hard to miss.
But outside Westminster, the prospect of Brexit — and the continuing disagreement about whether a divorce from Europe is a good idea — has quietly brought a new level of uncertainty into ordinary people’s economic lives.
To illustrate this, 
Ms. Marin’s new role is not surprising in a place where women’s representation in Parliament has been strong for decades. Analysts say it’s more significant that four of the five women in leading ministerial positions in Finland’s governing coalition are under 35.
Novels by women have accounted for roughly half of Italy’s top 20 best sellers in fiction over the last two years — nearly double the percentage from 2017, according to one survey.
Some in the industry cite “the Ferrante effect,” a nod to how Elena Ferrante’s best-selling books are 
Another factor, said the author Veronica Raimo, above, is that younger Italians are reading women in translation. “They know there are countries in which having someone like Jennifer Egan or Zadie Smith is normal,” she said.
 
When The Washington Post 
There are obvious similarities. Most notably, both were leaks demonstrating that the U.S. government had knowingly misrepresented a painful, costly war to the American public for years.
But there are differences, too.
The Pentagon Papers were a secret account of the Vietnam War commissioned by President John F. Kennedy’s defense secretary, Robert McNamara. They were leaked by Daniel Ellsberg, a military analyst who had worked on the study. And they revealed aspects of the war, including the widening of U.S. activity to include the bombings of Cambodia and Laos, that had gone largely unreported by major media.
In contrast, the Afghanistan documents were, according to The Post, drawn from military interviews used to write a series of reports that were publicly released. The Post obtained the documents under the Freedom of Information Act — though it had to sue twice to get them.
And keen readers of war coverage may find few surprises in the uncertainty of battlefield commanders about 
As to the effect on public opinion, that remains to be seen.
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time. 
— Mike