
The British prime minister challenged lawmakers to approve 
He is expected to present his proposal to Parliament on Monday, and it would still require the backing of two-thirds of lawmakers. That would be difficult without support from the opposition Labour Party, which so far has reacted coolly to the prospect of a general election. 
A win would give Mr. Johnson a popular mandate to carry out his vision of a swift departure from the E.U.
President Trump has been accused of withholding the funding as part of a politically motivated pressure campaign against the Ukrainian government, a central piece of the impeachment investigation. 
But in the trenches of Ukraine’s war with Russian-backed separatists, which has left some 13,000 people dead, soldiers said the freeze 
The misstep by lawmakers, originally intended to encourage drilling in the Gulf of Mexico, above, is expected to cost taxpayers for decades to come.
Just over three months before the first Democratic primary and caucus votes are cast, a pair of new national polls present 
It’s not clear how the polls, both reputable, arrived at such divergent conclusions. But it may reflect that many respondents are not yet certain about their preferences.
This is the largest wildfire to ignite this week, and comes after three straight years of record-breaking fires that researchers say are likely to continue in a warming world. It raises an important question: 
“I think the perception is that we’re supposed to control them. But in a lot of cases we cannot,” one expert said. “And that may allow us to think a little bit differently about how we live with fire. We call it wildfire for reason — it’s not domesticated fire.”
Eight of the dead are women and 31 are men, the police said. Each body will undergo a full coroner’s examination to identify the victim and establish the cause of death. 
The case increasingly appears to be linked to human trafficking and bears a striking resemblance to a case in 2000, when 
The Defense Department has transitioned away from a 1970s-era nuclear command and control system that relied on antiquated computer technology. 
The update is part of a broader overhaul of the U.S.’s atomic weapons that began under President Barack Obama and has continued under President Trump. But there was one upside to the old technology: Hackers can’t break into a floppy disk.
Their new film, “The Irishman,” is officially only the third time they have collaborated, but over the years they often turned to one another. Who else could understand?
“We get together and talk, compare notes,” Mr. 
A new study details the life cycle of the fungus, Ophiocordyceps, and it’s like something from a sci-fi movie: It takes over an ant’s body, then its brain, then the ant explodes. 
And a team of paleontologists has uncovered 
Witches are seemingly everywhere — witch parties, witch protests, witch podcasts, witches in residence — and now in a bevy of new books. This fall, 
“I mean, I didn’t choose to write this book. It just came,” said Augusten Burroughs, whose new book, “Toil & Trouble,” tells the story of his own witchy coming-out. “And that tells me that something has been unlocked. It’s time. It is the moment somehow for witches to come out — in all their vibrant diversity.”
Have a spellbinding night.