
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering leaked 
Britain will face shortages of fuel, food and medicine if it leaves the E.U. without a transition deal, jamming ports and requiring a hard border in Ireland, 
The forecasts compiled by the Cabinet Office set out the most likely 
The cabinet minister in charge of no-deal planning, Michael Gove, said on Twitter that the leaked documents reflected “
Germany ranks in international studies as one of the safest, most peaceful countries in the world.
But a series of crimes since June 
A week before, in an unrelated episode, a German man opened fire on a 26-year-old man from Eritrea, critically wounding him in a drive-by shooting that prosecutors described as racially motivated.
An Iranian oil tanker held for six weeks after being impounded 
A marine traffic monitoring site showed the tanker, the Grace 1, leaving Gibraltar’s waters. Iranian and Gibraltar news organizations confirmed that it had set sail. 
It was unclear whether the U.S. intended to seize the vessel now that it had left Gibraltar. But any attempt to intercept the tanker in international waters would most likely be considered illegal.
Organizers estimated that some 1.7 million — perhaps one-fourth of Hong Kong’s total population — took to the streets on Sunday, 
The Hong Kong police, however, said that only about 128,000 protesters showed up.
The demonstration, possibly the second largest since the movement began in June, remained peaceful — a stark contrast from the violence that broke out at previous protests.
A once-dilapidated St. Louis neighborhood was revived by thousands of Bosnian war refugees who had fled brutal ethnic cleansing in the 1990s. They moved in with business plans and home renovations, and before long brought life, color and the smell of fresh-baked bread to the area, which came to be known as Little Bosnia. Above, Beriz Nukic, the owner of the Bosnian restaurant Berix.
Today, St. Louis, like some other Midwestern cities, is battling a new round of contraction, with a stagnant economy, challenged schools and one of the highest murder rates in the U.S. And over the past few years, the residents of Little Bosnia have been fleeing again, 
And we talked to five cooking pros for tips on how to 
With President Trump and many other affluent players hitting the links this summer, it might seem hard to think of a time when golf wasn’t associated with the uber-rich.
However, golf’s origins are humble. Some 
In fact, golf was so popular that it was once 
King James IV of Scotland, who lifted the ban in 1503, is sometimes called the first royal golfer. And the game gained popularity among the English elite when 
But 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Melina