
LONDON — Some British citizens planning to travel abroad already have a tangible sign of what life will look like once the country is no longer a member of the European Union: new passports missing “European Union” on the front cover.
Last month, even as lawmakers wrestled over the principal terms of the withdrawal process known as Brexit, the Home Office said that 
For a while, both the old and new designs will be made and both are valid for travel, the Home Office said, adding, “You will not be able to choose whether you get a passport that includes the words European Union or a passport that does not.”
While Brexit itself has been delayed — the original departure deadline was extended to April 12, and 
One early recipient, Susan Hindle Barone, posted images of her 
Both passports have burgundy covers dominated by a golden coat of arms. But on one, the words “European Union” were missing from the top.
“Truly appalled,” Ms. Hindle Barone wrote. “I didn’t notice it until I looked at them next to each other. It makes me feel sick.”
In an email on Saturday, Ms. Hindle Barone, a supporter of remaining in the European Union wrote: “I was just shocked and dismayed to see the change to the passport as we haven’t left the E.U. yet. It’s not the passport itself, but what the changes symbolize — something which I believe to be completely futile.”
The basics of Brexit, the troubled plan for Britain to quit the European Union.
A Home Office spokeswoman 
Among the chief uncertainties surrounding Brexit was how traveling to Europe would change, depending on whether Britain reached a deal with the bloc. In posters on public transport and the internet, the government has 
But for Britons, whose passports sometimes are their only form of identification, the document has come to symbolize Brexit. When the government announced that it would return to the old 
Their joy was soon tempered by news that the documents would most likely be manufactured in France.
The symbolism of seemingly mundane documents is not limited to passports. In 2015, a year after Scotland voted not to declare independence from the United Kingdom, the government placed the British flag on driving licenses issued in England, Scotland and Wales in a bid to foster national unity.
(Driver’s licenses are handled differently in Northern Ireland.) The transport minister at the time, Tariq Ahmad, 
The European Union requires its members to make passports with certain security elements, but it does not mandate a uniform design. Nearly all 28 member countries have adopted 
Only Croatia, which joined the bloc in 2013, has continued to issue a 
Britain first issued blue passports in 1921. It had 32 pages and was written in French, according to 
Britons eager to start using a blue passport will have to wait until at least the end of the year, when the government will begin phasing them in. But burgundy booklets will continue to be issued until early 2020.