
That was Attorney General William Barr, who said 
He plans to testify on Capitol Hill in early May, shortly after the report is released, to discuss it with lawmakers.
In other news out of Washington, President Trump 
If that fails, the country faces the very real possibility of leaving the E.U. without a deal, which many fear will have grave economic implications, or requesting another extension from the bloc’s leaders.
One man is trying to make sense of Brexit, one flowchart at a time. 
Access to and the distribution of basic supplies have become 
In other international news, 
Some of the gains faded soon after the debut, but at the I.P.O. price, Lyft had a market value of over $24 billion, making it one of the most valuable American companies to go public in the last decade.
As unicorn companies like Lyft ride into the public markets, 
The authorities in Rockland County declared a state of emergency over the outbreak and have traced the spread of measles to ultra-Orthodox families whose children have not been vaccinated. Above, a father and child in Monsey, N.Y.
Federal agencies that are supposed to oversee the industry almost never act, and because the vans, like the one pictured above, cross state and county lines, local officials can say they don’t have jurisdiction.
In conjunction with The Marshall Project, we took a look at how one company has dodged responsibility for one inmate, Johnny Smith, who was charged with possession of a single oxycodone pill. He died in the back of a prison van in 2011. The for-profit company owes his family $650,000, and it still hasn’t paid.
The Los Angeles Dodgers had eight home runs, 
Her striking aesthetic is what our music critic calls a “collective middle finger to the strictures of teen-pop sex appeal,” with the musicality of an “edgy, genre-agnostic (but playlist-friendly) fusion that sounds like pop and streams like hip-hop.” 
In other debuts, 
In a news analysis in this weekend’s Sunday Review, our science columnist Carl Zimmer takes a look at 
“The project would later be dismissed as a folly and a waste of effort,” he writes. “And yet, 25 years on, it’s an experiment worth rediscovering. Biosphere 2 might have some lessons to offer about managing Biosphere 1 — our planet.”
For three decades, bright orange novelty phones shaped like the cartoon cat Garfield kept washing up on the shoreline of Brittany, in western France. 
Volunteers cleaning the beaches last week discovered a long-lost shipping container in a craggy nook. Because of rising tides, the sea cave is accessible only a few days each year. Once advertised by Tyco as “real phones for real fun,” they are now mostly a real nuisance along the Brittany coast.
Have a lazy weekend.