
Our reporters reconstructed how Mr. Trump came to his decision.
They describe 
Vice President Mike Pence and Pat Cipollone, the White House counsel, were among those who objected. Mr. Cipollone continued arguing in a smaller meeting, but Mr. Mulvaney, pictured above at the White House today, prevailed.
“Let me emphasize that safety is always No. 1 at the Department of Transportation, and a good day is when nothing bad happens,” Ms. Chao said.
Meanwhile, Boeing appeared to acknowledge for the first time that its software played a role in two fatal crashes of its 737 Max 8, and said a fix for the system was nearly ready.
Prime Minister Theresa May 
She made the offer just before lawmakers in Parliament began voting on alternative plans.
Turmoil in the British government was not limited to that process: 
If confirmed, the feat means India could essentially blind another country by taking out its space-based communication and surveillance satellites. The ability could potentially destabilize the relationship between India and Pakistan, two nuclear powers that already faced a brief period of hostilities last month.
It would also put India in a small club of countries with such strategic power, which includes China, the U.S. and Russia.
Some in India were suspicious about the timing of Mr. Modi’s announcement, shortly before general elections.
That was the Chicago mystery novelist Sara Paretsky, commenting on the Jussie Smollett case.
Our bureau chief writes that the city, riven by race, class, violence and secrecy, was the ideal setting for the saga, which ended with the mayor, the prosecutor and Mr. Smollett 
P.S.: Prosecutors noted Mr. Smollett’s community service work in explaining why they dropped the charges on Tuesday. 
According to an analysis of emergency room visits in Colorado, edibles created a disproportionate number of marijuana-related medical crises.
Doctors involved with the study explained that ingesting pot takes longer to produce a high than smoking it, so some people have trouble gauging if they’ve taken too much. “This is a common phenomenon. People take another dose,” said one doctor.
Ahead of the new season, 
Looking ahead, the major leagues’ opening day is tomorrow, kicking off a season 
Yann LeCun, Geoffrey Hinton and Yoshua Bengio, above, 
Players in the tech world seized on the story, sharing it on their own vast network of websites and social media and driving it to near the top of our list of most-reads.
Also on our list of most-read stories today: 
In a country well acquainted with myth and superstition, the “dog-suicide bridge” has invited paranormal explanations.
“I’m convinced it’s a ghost that is behind all of this,” said a teacher who wrote a book about it.
Readers responded to our article this week about 
Women, some of whom have traveled to dozens or scores of countries, affirmed their love of solo adventure. They said they pack their own doorstops, tip the hotel staff at the start of their stays, make friends with older vendors and listen to their guts.
And they enjoy themselves.
Have a delightful evening.