
If there’s an upside to
That was far from evident in the immediate aftermath of the 432-to-202 vote in Parliament on Tuesday. Though it was the worst drubbing a British government had suffered in modern times and a dangerous step toward the cliff’s edge, the vote was cheered by many sides — by hard-core Brexiteers who would sever ties to the Continent at any cost; by “remainers” for whom any glitch in the Brexit process keeps alive the hope of staying in the union or at least softening the terms of a divorce; by Labour’s 
Mr. Corbyn’s ambitions, at least, were dashed for the moment when many of the politicians from Mrs. May’s camp who defied her on Tuesday 
On the Continent, the exasperation was tangible. “If a deal is impossible, and no one wants no deal, then who will finally have the courage to say what the only positive solution is?” 
The 27 other members of the European Union have been united in insisting that 
“It’s not up to us, the French, the Europeans, to tell the Britons what they must do,” 
Though debate on Brexit has dominated the British media, social and traditional, 
And in their fervor, the British have often behaved as if the debate is only among themselves, and not with the entire bloc. Hard-core advocates of quitting in particular have clung to the illusion that Britain can abandon those elements of the union they dislike, like free movement of people, and keep those that benefit them.
In the tumultuous Parliament sessions of this week, and often before that, Mrs. May came under withering criticism for not producing a deal. Yet hers was a mission impossible from the outset.
If the votes of this week make at least that much clear, British politicians may at last begin confronting the real options they face. These include trying to forge a consensus position on a new Brexit deal and hoping the Europeans will consider it; or opting for a new referendum, which is favored by politicians who believe that enough of the public has reconsidered Brexit to scrap the idea; or accepting Mrs. May’s deal.
These are difficult and contentious choices, and they need time. At this late hour, even before the shock of this week’s votes has subsided, both sides need to take a deep breath and agree on extending the deadline. Leaders of the union have indicated that they would look favorably on an extension of the deadline, and Mrs. May has given hints in the same direction. 
There’s too much at stake to stop trying.