
Automakers, in quick succession, have moved in recent weeks to end parts of their operations in Europe. Nissan is the latest: On Tuesday, it confirmed that it would cease assembling Infiniti cars at its plant in northeast England.
The moves, during Britain’s wrenching debate over its departure from the European Union, known as Brexit, have raised the question: Is Brexit forcing the carmaking industry out of Britain? 
It’s not quite so simple. Traditional car manufacturers, 
As automakers allocate resources, they have been balancing the need to respond to these changes with the justifications for producing cars in places like Britain. 
Here are some of the forces reshaping the industry. 
In the wake of Volkswagen’s diesel-cheating scandal in 2015, when it used software to trick emissions tests, awareness of the harmful effects of fossil fuels has prompted stricter regulation throughout the Continent.
Volkswagen admitted that 11 million of its vehicles were equipped with software that was used to cheat on emissions tests. This is how the technology works and what it now means for vehicle owners.
In the meantime, more governments, drivers and carmakers 
Carmakers are racing to respond. Volkswagen said Tuesday that it intended to sell 22 million electric cars over the next 10 years, 
The investments necessary for building electric cars have added to cost pressures for automakers that, in some cases, have struggled to turn a profit in Europe. 
In justifying the 
As carmakers channel billions of dollars into grabbing a portion of the 
This has prompted car companies to realign where they make and develop cars. 
In their efforts to grab a share of the growing market for electric cars, traditional car companies are competing not just with each other but also against technology companies.
Uber, Alphabet and Tesla are channeling money into electric cars and autonomous cars, while reshaping the way people travel with ride-hailing services. 
This has prompted rivals to team up, or to work with the technology companies, so that they are not left behind. 
BMW is working with the 
Fiat Chrysler is working with 
This shift has accelerated change and added to costs, said Peter Wells, a professor at the Center for Automotive Industry Research at the Cardiff Business School in Wales. And that has prompted companies to scrutinize whether they should maintain operations in markets that are not expected to grow and could become more difficult to serve. 
“Companies around the world are having to re-evaluate their positions,” Mr. Wells said. 
The European car market is not growing. Annual 
It is also a saturated market, dominated by European marques, and favors smaller cars. Carmakers hungry for profits generated by pickup trucks and 
The Italian-American company 
Certainly, even promising regions face challenges. In the United States, many believe that car sales have peaked, forcing the idling of some factories. And the economic slowdown in China has sent car sales plummeting. 
But in announcing its withdrawal from Western Europe, Infiniti said it intended to focus on its S.U.V. in North America and its new models in China. 
Against this backdrop, the uncertainty surrounding Britain’s departure from the European Union has made it difficult for companies to plan ahead. Several car companies have said they will close their factories temporarily after the country leaves the bloc in order to adjust to the disruptions that could arise. 
The fear is that Brexit could cause havoc with the carefully choreographed 
After Brexit, those trucks could face substantial delays if they must go through customs checkpoints. Without a clear sense of the terms of Britain’s scheduled departure in a couple of weeks, making plans for production a few years down the line is more difficult. Investment into Britain’s auto industry 