
Two days after 157 people were killed on a Boeing 737 Max 8 flight from Ethiopia to Kenya, European Union officials grounded all of the planes traveling in and out of its member countries, following similar moves by aviation regulators in China, Indonesia, Singapore and Australia. Above, a 737 Max 8 at Miami International Airport on Tuesday.
The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration said it would examine the data from the Ethiopia crash but added that 
At least 27 airlines have taken the aircraft out of service. 
The devastating blow could threaten Mrs. May’s hold on power, and it is likely to intensify calls for her to step down, call a general election or both. Mrs. May’s plan, painstakingly negotiated with the E.U., would have set the terms for Britain’s scheduled exit on March 29. Above, protesters outside of Parliament on Tuesday.
Lawmakers will now shift their focus to a similarly crucial vote on Wednesday on whether to leave the E.U. without a deal, and a vote on Thursday on whether to seek a postponement of withdrawal. Most lawmakers are opposed to that option.
Along with the Hollywood stars Felicity Huffman and Lori Loughlin, those charged included prominent business leaders, a fashion designer and a top lawyer. 
The director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, L. Francis Cissna, above last June, told staff members that the international division, which has operations in more than 20 countries, would 
In other administration news, Dr. Norman Sharpless, director of the National Cancer Institute, will serve as 
From the Capitol to bars around town, 
“I have this constant anticipation of something,” one woman said. “Every day I’m disappointed.”
“The Daily” has a three-part series on what happens next: the rules of releasing the report, three possible outcomes and how Congress is preparing for the results. 
That’s Corey Foster, above, who spent her Army career caring for wounded troops only to face what many women like her say is a 
That culture is driving away female veterans and lags far behind the gains women have made in the military in recent years, veterans and lawmakers of both parties say.
The Oklahoma City Thunder point guard said the fan demanded that he “get down on my knees like you used to.” After the game, Mr. Westbrook acknowledged that he had threatened to beat up the fan’s wife, but he said he had “never put his hand on a woman” and “never will.” He also stood by his actions, saying, “If I had to do it over again, I would say the same exact thing.”
The confrontation between Mr. Westbrook and the Jazz fan — who has presented a starkly different description of the episode but was permanently barred from the arena by the team — is 
The industry has been slow to recognize, much less meet, the needs of plus-size Americans. 
“Restaurants want to be able to serve large-bodied people, but I think they don’t know they have inadvertently created environments that are difficult for us,” said Rebecca Alexander, above, who introduced a crowdsourced mobile app last year, similar to Yelp, for plus-size people.
Our 52 Places Traveler had trouble finding his groove amid 
“When you look past the artifice and give yourself over to the experience, it’s a lot of fun,” he writes. “And, in the end, isn’t that the point of Las Vegas?”
Elizabeth Hargrave is a birder who loves math. She also loves board games. You can guess what happened next. In the board game Wingspan, published on Friday, 
Gamers accustomed to zombies, dragons, spaceships and building civilizations were apprehensive at first. But a birder-gamer hybrid quickly evolved. More than 5,000 games sold in a week and the game is now on its third print run, with a total of 30,000 games in English, and 14,000 in various foreign-language editions.
Have a soaring evening.