
The 432-to-202 vote was the 
The opposition leader Jeremy Corbyn put forward a motion of no confidence in Mrs. May, which Parliament will debate and vote on Wednesday. As things stand, the prime minister must return to Parliament by Monday to present a backup withdrawal plan.
If nothing is approved by March 29, Britain will make a “no-deal” exit from the E.U., which lawmakers have warned could be chaotic and pose grave economic risks. Here are 
“It is in the best interest of everyone — the president, Congress and, most importantly, the American people — that this matter be resolved by allowing the special counsel to complete his work,” William Barr said of the inquiry, which is believed to be in its final stages.
With Republicans firmly in control of the Senate, his confirmation to lead the Justice Department appears to be on track.
Mr. Barr, who also served as attorney general under President George Bush, is 
The Democrats’ absence was the latest indication that the 
With the shutdown in its 25th day, the Federal Aviation Administration 
Mr. King, who has a history of making racist remarks and insulting immigrants, was 
Mr. King, above, took to the House floor to say he would vote in support of the resolution, which called out his remarks specifically. Only one representative voted against it, saying “anything short of a censure” was shallow.
At least 
The assailants were identified as members of the Shabab, an Islamist extremist group with ties to Al Qaeda. The attack came on the eve of a verdict in the trial of three men accused of helping the group in a deadly assault on 
There have been hints at high-level corruption since the start of the trial in November, including payoffs from traffickers to the Mexican police and public officials — but no accusations at this level before.
Over more than a decade as a top-10 player, Mr. Murray has used his position to be an advocate for 
“Your greatest impact on the world may be yet to come,” the tennis great Billie Jean King wrote on Twitter. “Your voice for equality will inspire future generations.”
And after another couple in the colony started neglecting an egg, penguin keepers at the Sea Life Sydney Aquarium figured they would give it to Sphen and Magic.
Their chick — called Sphengic — hatched in October and is now waddling around its ice enclosure near the harbor.
Our reporter took a look at Sphen and Magic, their 
Pete Wells, our chief restaurant critic, found the new Manhattan restaurant Benno 
And the first review is in from our new California restaurant critic, Tejal Rao. She writes about Angler in San Francisco, where the chef is showing 
Over the course of her life, and around the world, Ms. Channing played the title role of the matchmaker Dolly Gallagher Levi more than 5,000 times by her count.
“Performing is the only excuse for my existence,” she said during her last Broadway appearance, in 1995. “What can be better than this?”
Have a dazzling night.