
Mr. Trump called the current negotiations over the wall “a waste of time” and indicated he will likely take action on his own when they end in two weeks: “I’ve set the table. I’ve set the stage for doing what I’m going to do.”
On the topic of China, he 
The interview was arranged after Mr. Trump reached out to the publisher of The Times, and invited him for an off-the-record dinner. The publisher declined, saying he would prefer an on-the-record interview that included two of his reporters. Mr. Trump agreed.
At least 21 deaths have been connected with the record-breaking cold, including a 
The sustained cold taxed energy systems and forced the cancellation of thousands of flights and closings of schools and universities. In Milwaukee, wind chill fell to minus 50. 
But the cold is expected to begin to lift on Friday. By the end of the weekend, temperatures in some areas could swing up to the 40s or 50s, bringing rain instead of snow.
The measure, written by Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, warned that “the precipitous withdrawal of United States forces from either country could put at risk hard-won gains and United States national security.”
The measure was 
But the bipartisan spirit had its limits. Mr. McConnell (above, on Capitol Hill today) called a proposal to make Election Day a holiday 
“It’s meant extra resources, extra overtime, to get it done,” said one executive of an auto parts factory in the Midlands of England, pictured above. “It’s incredibly annoying. It’s frustrating.”
The economy is 2.3 percent smaller than it would have been if Britain had voted to remain in the E.U. in 2016, according to one research institution. And investment in the auto sector was found to have plunged by 
Our tech writer sees the possibility that Mr. Cook, above in September, could become “a technology regulator of last resort — using the power of Apple’s iOS operating system as a cudgel to force software companies to respect user privacy and play by the rules, or risk losing access to millions of iPhone users.”
The businesses were dismantled following raids in Irvine, Calif., in 2015, including the one pictured above. They coached clients to falsify U.S. visa applications and pay indigent rates at hospitals where they delivered. Some Chinese couples were charged as much as $100,000 for a package that included housing, nannies and shopping at Gucci, according to the indictments.
One suggested pregnant mothers indicate that they intended to stay at a Trump luxury hotel, to convince immigration officials that they were well-to-do vacationers.
When he fatally shot himself in his bedroom last September, his family and friends were shocked. Not his wife, who watched his decline up close. “We were really good at hiding it,” she told our reporter.
We took a look at 
Through her own works and collections, the show, at the Brooklyn Museum, highlights Kahlo’s skill of leaving behind a public persona that still resonates well into the 21st century. It is the biggest stateside show ever devoted to the artist. We have 
In 1947, he was a 28-year-old rookie in a Brooklyn Dodgers uniform, the first African-American to play in the major leagues in the modern era. Jackie Robinson pushed the boundaries of baseball, and by extension, the entire country.
We’ve collected 
Sweethearts, 
But there may be hope yet for Sweethearts fans. A new owner of the brand left a three-heart response on its website for adoring fans: “Miss U 2,” the hearts said. “Wait 4 Me.” “Back Soon.”
Have a sweet night.