
President Trump announced that Republicans would 
Mr. Trump also had words for Puerto Rico. He cast its leaders as 
Puerto Ricans have been dumbfounded. Their governor tweeted back: “Mr. President, once again, we are not your adversaries, we are your citizens.”
But now he is facing accusations of unwelcome touching from a second woman, even as he is expected to announce whether he’ll run in the 2020 presidential election. Our political reporter 
From Opinion, Jennifer Senior argues that 
Separately, our executive editor, Dean Baquet, and our top newsroom lawyer, David McCraw, are discussing press freedom at 7 p.m. Eastern as part of our TimesTalks series. Join 
In a surprise announcement, the British leader, pictured above today, said she would seek another extension for Brexit and would 
That would involve negotiating with the Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn and shifting toward a softer Brexit. The E.U.’s chief Brexit negotiator 
But don’t call British lawmakers one-note. They simply couldn’t ignore a 
After another Boeing 737 Max 8 crashed five months later, it became clear that Lion Air, Boeing, subcontractors, investigators and regulators all put up barriers that made it difficult to share information about what went wrong, leaving many in the dark. Our reporters uncovered a 
NASA said that debris created by India’s test last week, above, in which it shot down its own satellite with a rocket, 
The U.S. space agency identified 400 pieces of debris from the test, some of which pose a risk to the station because of the speed at which they travel, up to 29,000 miles per hour.
“That kind of activity is not compatible with the future of human spaceflight that we need to see have happen,” NASA’s administrator said Monday.
Lori Lightfoot, a lawyer and former federal prosector, will replace Rahm Emanuel. When she takes office in May, she will also be the city’s first openly gay mayor.
Ms. Lightfoot won as a political outsider in a city that has often elected insiders.
And in Ferguson, Mo., 
The findings were a closely guarded secret for three decades. Now, as the Trump administration plans to open the area to drilling, 
“The discovery well was worthless,” said a retired lawyer who was involved in a long-since-forgotten lawsuit filed there in 1987.
The Australian stand-up comic Hannah Gadsby declared she was quitting comedy in her hit Netflix special last year, “Nanette.” Last week, she returned to the Australian stage with “Douglas,” a new show named after her dog.
In advance of her American tour this month, 
And we have 
Walking the length of Manhattan (it took more than eight hours), Sebastian Modak 
But he couldn’t help gravitating to the familiar.
“All of a sudden, this megacity, one that can be so elusive to so many — even me — felt a whole lot like home,” he wrote.
Our food columnist Melissa Clark had to find out. The fast-selling appliance, 
She took on French fries, chicken wings, brussels sprouts, doughnuts and jalapeño poppers, to name a few.
“Here’s the thing I realized about the air fryer,” she concluded. “‘Frying’ is the thing it does worst of all.”
We hope you have a more appetizing night.