
LONDON — For months, Britain’s embattled prime minister, Theresa May, has taken much of the blame for the handling of the withdrawal from the European Union. Now the tarnishing has spread to Parliament.
On Tuesday, lawmakers gave Mrs. May a mandate to renegotiate a legally binding exit deal with the European Union, known as Brexit, even though the bloc says the negotiation cannot be reopened. And, while lawmakers protested the looming prospect of a potentially disastrous exit in less than two months without any agreement, they refused to take the power to stop it.
“I think it’s a travesty that, at this point in the proceedings, with the country facing a grave political and economic crisis, members of Parliament have been voting for things that the European Union says it cannot agree,” said Simon Tilford, an expert on Europe at Chatham House, a research institute based in London.
“What was striking was how reluctant members of Parliament were to do anything that could be interpreted as taking back control,” Mr. Tilford added. Brexit, he said, had “discredited the British Parliament and shown the whole British political class in a thoroughly unserious light.”
On Wednesday Mrs. May was preparing for a battle with the European Union, whose leaders have already rejected her new plan endorsed by Parliament to break the Brexit deadlock. Some also warned that the risks of a disorderly departure are rising.
For Mrs. May, the votes in Parliament at least won her some time. She can still hope that, as the March 29 exit day comes closer, the European Union might offer her concessions and more lawmakers might eventually support a revised version for her unpopular agreement, for fear of a no-deal exit.
Mrs. May held private discussions Wednesday on Brexit with Jeremy Corbyn, leader of the opposition, who had until now refused the offer of talks. That meeting took place in the House of Commons, depriving photographers of an image of Mr. Corbyn entering 10 Downing Street — the office he hopes to occupy. The meeting kept open lines of communication, even if it did not yield any obvious sign of a cross-party consensus.
But something needs to shift. This month, the 650-seat Parliament rejected Mrs. May’s Brexit deal by the crushing margin of 230 votes, leaving the process in limbo. With Mrs. May facing another vote in Parliament in two weeks, she needs results fast.
Business is growing increasingly alarmed as it ramps up contingency plans for a damaging rupture. After the parliamentary votes, Carolyn Fairbairn, the head of the business lobby group, the Confederation of British Industry, offered a wearily negative verdict, describing the outcome as “deeply frustrating.”
“The never-ending parliamentary process limps on while the economic impact of no-deal planning accelerates,” she said. In recent days supermarkets and restaurant chains have warned that some fruit and vegetable supplies could run out and prices could rise if ports are paralyzed and supply chains are disrupted.
In a commentary titled “Parliament flops; hard Brexit risk rises,” Kallum Pickering, a senior economist at Berenberg Bank in London, described the actions of lawmakers as “a major opportunity missed.”
“Parliament is badly divided over Brexit,” Mr. Pickering wrote. The political paralysis, he wrote raised the risk that Britain “could crash out of the E.U. without a deal.”
For Mrs. May, the good news is that, with the plan to renegotiate, she has temporarily reunited her bitterly divided Conservative Party behind a strategy that, in theory, could help her resurrect her Brexit deal. The bad news is that involves doing something that even she said was impossible only recently.
The idea, approved by a modest, 16-vote majority in Parliament, involves reopening the legally binding withdrawal agreement in order to water down the so-called Irish backstop — a plan to ensure that goods flow across the Irish border without checks.
Brexit supporters hate the backstop because they say it could keep Britain beholden indefinitely to some European Union rules. Mrs. May says she could push for a time limit to the backstop or an exit mechanism — proposals that have been ruled out by the bloc’s negotiators.
On Wednesday, the president of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, said that “the withdrawal agreement will not be renegotiated,” warning that the risks of no deal were rising. His opposition to renegotiating was echoed both by the Austrian chancellor, Sebastian Kurz, and the German foreign minister, Heiko Maas.
Brexit supporters argue that at least Parliament has made a clear demand, albeit one difficult to achieve. They point out that the European Union does not want a no-deal Brexit either and hope that, as the prospect looms, continental Europeans will blink first.
So far there is no sign of that outcome. Officials in Brussels seem in no hurry while the British Parliament gives confusing signals.
And speaking to the Ireland broadcaster RTE, the country’s foreign minister, Simon Coveney, rejected Mrs. May’s calls to rewrite the Irish backstop and dismissed her negotiating tactics that threaten a no-deal Brexit.
Such tactics, he said, were like saying “either you give me what I want or I will jump out of the window.”