
DUBLIN — With Westminster deadlocked over Britain’s departure from the European Union, one small party is potentially positioned to rescue Britain from its self-induced paralysis — but it refuses to vote.
Having won seven seats on an anti-Brexit platform, the party’s support would have 
The party is Sinn Fein, the former political wing of the Irish Republican Army, which does not consider itself British and has formally renounced any involvement in Westminster politics.
This week, despite renewed criticism in Ireland, Sinn Fein repeated that it has no intention of ending its Westminster boycott. “It’s a matter of principle. We are a party that is for a United Ireland, for Irish independence,” said the party’s president, Mary Lou McDonald, on Tuesday.
Speaking outside the Irish Parliament in Dublin, Ms. McDonald told reporters that Sinn Fein members would not be prepared to “swear an oath to a foreign power,” a reference to the royal oath of allegiance required of new lawmakers at Westminster.
“Irish interests in this Brexit debacle are not best advanced at Westminster,” she said. “Irish interests in this scenario were always going to be advanced and protected, or not, by the government in Dublin, whose duty it is to defend Irish interests in conjunction with our European partners.”
A cross-border party whose central goal is a united Ireland, Sinn Fein actively participates in both the Republic of Ireland’s Parliament and in the (currently suspended) assembly for Northern Ireland, a devolved region of the United Kingdom. Its refusal to take up its seats in Westminster at a time when the Parliament is debating and voting on issues of critical importance to the whole island of Ireland has been repeatedly criticized by other Irish parties, north 
Sinn Fein is a determined competitor in Northern Ireland parliamentary elections, using any seats it wins at Westminster as a source of electoral legitimacy — and of public funds from the British exchequer. At the last elections in 2017, it won seven seats, with the rival, pro-Brexit Democratic Unionist Party taking 10 of the other 11 Northern Ireland constituencies. But Sinn Fein insists that its candidates are elected on a clearly stated abstentionist policy, and that they therefore have no mandate to vote in Britain’s Parliament, whatever is at stake.
A poll taken in the Republic of Ireland last month suggested that 57 percent of voters there felt that Sinn Fein should be prepared to vote at Westminster on matters relating to Brexit, with only 20 percent against. But within its core support group in Northern Ireland, where Sinn Fein is the main voice of Catholic nationalism, the boycott is seen by many as a matter of principle, not political tactics, 
Prof. Jennifer Todd, a political scientist at University College Dublin, said that going to Westminster would do little to change Sinn Fein’s popularity in the Republic, where it runs mainly on leftist social democratic issues, but would alienate some core supporters in the north, benefiting hard-line dissidents who never recognized the peace deal. Nor, she thought, was the party’s tactical route in Westminster as straightforward as arithmetic might suggest.
If it did it enter Parliament on a one-off basis to vote on Brexit, “it might work,” she said. “They could come in and out and make a difference without committing to a parliamentary presence.”
But with British parliamentary politics so chaotic and unpredictable, she said, they could “get caught in the Westminster process and they would lose Northern Ireland support to the dissidents.”
Sinn Fein’s president, Ms. McDonald, made a similar point in Dublin on Tuesday. “Don’t imagine for a second that seven Sinn Fein M.P.s could enter Westminster and make sense of the utter chaos and circus that we’ve witnessed over the last number of months,” she said.