
LIVERPOOL, England — For the 22 years it has existed, Wavertree, a multiethnic, mostly working-class constituency in the northern city of Liverpool, has voted exclusively for Labour. It has been a safe seat in a strongly socialist city; at the most recent general election, the party’s candidate took four-fifths of the vote.
So its local leaders were aghast when tiny Wavertree emerged as the locus of the latest feud over anti-Semitism in the Labour Party, when its member of Parliament, Luciana Berger, resigned this week after receiving anti-Semitic abuse, and with local Labour activists having called her a “disruptive Zionist” and a supporter of a “murdering” government.
“It has always been a Labour government that addressed racism,” said one of the district’s city council members, David Cummings. “I’m proud of that. I’m a socialist. I’m an internationalist. When you’re a socialist you recognize everybody, you don’t judge anyone on anyone’s background.”
The tensions only deepened this week as an eighth Labour lawmaker quit the party, accusing its leader of infecting it “with the scourge of anti-Jewish racism.”
Joan Ryan joined a group of seven Labour defectors who had 
And just hours before Ms. Ryan’s defection, another Labour member of Parliament 
“Over the past three years, the Labour Party under Jeremy Corbyn has become infected with the scourge of anti-Jewish racism,” Ms. Ryan wrote in 
Mr. Corbyn is a vehement and unapologetic critic of the current Israeli government, but has failed to shake off claims that he has tolerated anti-Semitism within Labour’s ranks. His supporters, many of them Jewish, deny those claims, arguing that instances of anti-Semitism in the party have fallen since he became leader and that criticism of the Israeli government does not equate to a hatred of Jews.
His critics respond that while comments made by some party members may not be overtly anti-Semitic, they represent dog-whistle politics.
“I cannot remain in a party that I have come to the sickening conclusion is institutionally anti-Semitic,” Ms. Berger said on Monday. She had been threatened with a vote of no-confidence by local party activists for her public criticisms of Mr. Corbyn, but the motion was eventually withdrawn. She then came under attack from local Labour activists in her constituency, who accused her of supporting the Israeli government’s treatment of Palestinians.
One example was brought to light this week by 
Another local Labour member, Kenneth Campbell, described Ms. Berger as a “disruptive Zionist.” Neither could be reached for comment.
In response, Tom Watson, Labour’s deputy leader, said last week that the party was investigating its Wavertree branch. On Tuesday, the Liverpool offices of both Ms. Berger and the local party were locked, and no one responded to repeated knocks on their doors.
The Liverpool Wavertree Labour Party rejected the claims of anti-Semitism. “Our chair is himself Jewish,” 
The council member, Mr. Cummings, said, “I have never experienced any anti-Semitism in regards to Luciana Berger.” While allowing that there was a lot of anti-Semitism on social media, he said that he had heard people disagree with Ms. Berger’s politics, but never “heard anybody refer to her religion or ethnic background.”
He acknowledged that Ms. Berger, a Londoner and a centrist Labour candidate, was viewed by some locals as having been “parachuted” into Wavertree and having tenuous connections with her constituency.
Alex Scott-Samuel, the chairman of the local party, declined to comment. Earlier this month, the University of Liverpool 
Last week, Labour’s general secretary, Jennie Formby, revealed that the party had received 673 complaints of anti-Semitism by its members in the last 10 months. In a letter, Ms. Formby said that 96 members were immediately suspended for their conduct between April 2018 and January 2019, and 12 were expelled.
The data, 
“I totally reject the suggestion that the existence of anti-Semitism in our party is a smear,” Ms. Formby said, after being pushed by Labour lawmakers to reveal what kind of disciplinary action was being taken. “I have seen hard evidence of it, and that is why I have been so determined to do whatever is possible to eliminate it from the party.”
Still, the problem — or at least the perception of anti-Semitism festering in the party’s ranks — is as persistent as crab grass.
On Tuesday, Ruth George, a member of Parliament for a district of Derbyshire, 
Ms. George said she meant only to say it was “important for democracy to know the financial backers for any political group or policy.” In her apology, she said she “had no intention of invoking a conspiracy theory and I am deeply sorry that my ill-thought out and poorly worded comment did this.”
Jenny Manson, a leader of the group, said in an interview that invoking conspiracy theories, while dangerous, did not necessarily equate to anti-Semitism and that they had to be taken in context.
When pressed about whether Ms. George’s post pandered to a well-known “Jews and money” trope, Ms. Manson said, “It was borderline offensive but there’s nothing anti-Semitic about it.”
She also defended Mr. Corbyn, saying that anti-Semitism had fallen under his leadership. “I’ve never felt that anti-Semitism is rife” in the Labour Party, she said. “I have not seen actual evidence that there is a major problem in the Labour Party.”
She further said that the Conservative Party had its own problems with anti-Semitism and Islamophobia, but that those went largely unreported by the news media.
The chairman of the Jewish Leadership Council, Jonathan Goldstein, said Ms. Manson’s strong defense of Labour was not surprising, given that the Jewish Voice for Labour was “set up to deny anti-Semitism in the Labour Party.”
Some analysts say the criticism over anti-Semitism has been blown out of proportion by people seeking to take down Mr. Corbyn.
“Is anti-Semitism rife in the Labour party? No,” said Jon Tonge, professor of politics at the University of Liverpool and an expert in Labour Party affairs. “Has Corbyn made a few mistakes in handling it? Yes. In broader terms, Labour M.P.s think he’s unelectable and anti-Semitism is a battering ram to attack Corbyn.”