
LONDON — The arrival of the new year has done little to quell the nerves about a London in flux. The economic and political future of Britain remains uncertain, and the 
It has prompted an identity crisis that spilled over into the first of the coming round of fashion shows, which began on Friday with London Fashion Week Men’s. After all, the old narrative of London as a global metropolis was an identity deeply woven into its designs. 
So it was of little surprise that, last weekend, passionate questions around authentic presentations of self and voice, as well as explorations of artifice and mirage, were front and center on the runway. Here’s what shone through.
This season, the stakes were raised by some of the brightest young talents on the fashion week calendar: recognition, perhaps, of a need to boost their credibility outside of their home base.
31 Photos
View Slide Show 
Case in point: 
Amid prancing actors, shattered chandeliers and bathtubs filled with books, came bold, oversize tartan suits and exquisite embroidered coats; colorful graphic mohair sweaters; and dramatic scarlet evening gowns, either one-shouldered with a dropped waist or sleeveless with a full tiered skirt. 
Mr. Jeffrey’s prodigious talent was visible in both cut and construction, as was an effort to make his often outrageous styles more accessible.
The same could not be said of 
More commercial was 
And then there was Samuel Ross of 
Like Mr. Jeffrey, Mr. Ross has stepped things up a notch while looking to the news cycle. His show was inspired, in part, by the immigration crisis and the movement of people across bodies of water in Europe. 
Models came down a runway adrift in inky black water, surrounded by growling dogs and dancers who slinked and sighed in the shadows. Constantly looking over their shoulders, they wore versions of the sportswear that has become this brand’s signature — hoodies, macs, protective utility vests and tailored tracksuits in muted tones — with reflective piping and compasses sewn into garments. 
“Fashion has overdone nostalgia in an attempt to cash in on your impossible longing for a perfect you and perfect time, that doesn’t exist now and actually never did.” So read the show notes of 
It was a theme also plumbed by 
Techy tracksuits and multipocket outerwear in verdant hues, laden with cheeky touches like open flies, midriff hints and bottom-skimming zips, were framed by a 10-piece capsule collection of sleek raincoats made with the Italian label Allegri.
“Pretense healthily lifts us away from our reality,” Mr. Chalayan said, “adding a richness to the monotony of our lives.”
Also adding richness:
Belted trench coats in black, blues and earthy reds had an enveloping, cocoon-like quality, while a series of long-sleeved tees and trousers in tightly elasticated plastic scales came with billowing hoods to match. The point being traditions did not need to be forgotten — there were ancient knitwear techniques woven into almost every look — even if the focus remains moving forward.
Also returning: Patrick Grant of 
Staples of his utilitarian street wear aesthetic, like typhoon suits, oversize khaki parkas and patchwork tracksuits, were shown in new and innovative materials on an army of models. There were also collaborations: with Range Rover (premium sunglasses) and Margot Vaaderpass, a fellow Royal College of Art designer (roll-neck knitwear made from recycled yarn), to demonstrate the power in numbers.
David Beckham, an owner of 
There were classic three-piece tweed suits, signature collarless shirts, and peg-leg wool trousers — all in autumnal tones — alongside a motley mix of rugby shirts, Crombie coats, argyle sweaters and striped skinny suits. Also flat caps, which, Mr. Beckham admitted, “I got from my granddad. I wore his from a very young age.”
And now? “Brooklyn has taken it on as well.”