
LONDON — After two 
On Wednesday, in a breach of diplomatic protocol, the president of the European Council, Donald Tusk, vented his frustrations with the endless political machinations in London with a stinging indictment of the most fervent proponents of Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union, or Brexit.
“I’ve been wondering what that special place in hell looks like, for those who promoted Brexit, without even a sketch of a plan how to carry it out safely,” Mr. Tusk said at a joint news conference in Brussels with the Irish prime minister, Leo Varadkar.
I've been wondering what that special place in hell looks like, for those who promoted 
Those comments were not aimed directly at Mrs. May, who campaigned to remain in the European Union in a 2016 referendum, albeit not particularly hard. But as the clock ticks down toward the March 29 deadline for withdrawal — with the prospect of an economically and politically damaging no-deal exit growing stronger by the day — they hardly set a promising tone for the talks on Thursday.
Mrs. May is scheduled to meet senior figures, including Mr. Tusk, to seek a way to help rescue a blueprint for Brexit that was rejected overwhelmingly by a disgruntled British Parliament last month. If she is to have any hope of getting her deal passed, she will need the bloc’s leaders to give her some concessions over a backstop plan to prevent physical checks on the Irish border.
That does not seem at all imminent, particularly after Mr. Tusk’s remarks, which he repeated on Twitter. Then in a private conversation at the end of the news conference, picked up by live microphones, Mr. Varadkar told Mr. Tusk that he would have “terrible trouble in the British press for that” — eliciting a nod from Mr. Tusk and a hearty laugh from both men.
The intervention produced a predictably angry reaction from some of the Brexit supporters whom Mrs. May is trying to cajole into supporting her plan.
Sammy Wilson, a lawmaker for the Democratic Unionist Party from Northern Ireland, whose 10 votes prop up the government, described Mr. Tusk as a “devilish, trident-wielding euromaniac.”
Even cabinet ministers voiced their annoyance. The home secretary, Sajid Javid, described the comments as “out of order,” and Andrea Leadsom, leader of the House of Commons, told the BBC the words were “spiteful.”
Some countries could lose quite badly. A few could benefit.
Even without the latest spat, there had been little hope of an immediate breakthrough.
Most analysts believe the process is stuck in a sort of purgatory, with further maneuvering likely in the British Parliament before the crisis that has paralyzed the country’s political system reaches its endgame. The fact that Mrs. May and her allies spent a week trying to negotiate with British lawmakers before heading to Brussels underscores her domestic difficulties.
“I would be surprised if she gets anything out of the E.U. this week, apart from expressions of good will,” said Simon Fraser, former head of Britain’s foreign office, now managing partner at Flint Global, a consultancy.
Mr. Fraser predicted “another week or two of wheel-spinning, rather than forward propulsion.”
Mrs. May is expected to say that she wants urgently to work with the European Union to secure changes to a plan for Brexit — one that suffered a crushing 230-vote defeat in Britain’s 650-seat Parliament, leaving the whole process in limbo.
But that will require changes in the Irish backstop, designed to avoid customs checks on the border between Ireland and Northern Ireland. The Irish backstop plan is loathed by the hard-line supporters of Brexit whom Mr. Tusk excoriated, because it could keep the United Kingdom tied, indefinitely, to some European Union rules.
So Conservative lawmakers from different sides of the debate have spent three days negotiating a plan in London that they hope Mrs. May will press.
This so-called Malthouse Compromise could effectively mean Britain paying into the European Union until 2021 in order to smooth its exit, allowing it to negotiate a trade plan that would prevent the need for border checks in Ireland — or to prepare better for a no-deal exit.
The basics of Brexit, the troubled plan for Britain to quit the European Union.
So far European officials have shown no interest in that idea, or in others raised by Mrs. May, such as a time limit for the backstop or a unilateral exit mechanism. Both those concepts would invalidate the purpose of the backstop, they say.
Both Mr. Tusk and Mr. Varadkar on Wednesday reiterated their support for the backstop and their opposition to reopening the legally binding withdrawal agreement. Mr. Varadkar said that while he was “open to further discussions” with the British government, the agreement remained “the best deal possible.”
Officials in Brussels say they expect Thursday’s discussions to be polite, if not particularly productive. Mr. Tusk’s comments appeared to be aimed at the main figureheads of the Leave campaign in the 2016 referendum, including the former foreign secretary, Boris Johnson.
In his comments, Mr. Tusk reflected the faltering hopes for a second referendum that might reverse Brexit, saying that the pro-Brexit stance of Mrs. May and the opposition leader, Jeremy Corbyn, “rules out this question.”
“Today, there is no political force and no effective leadership for Remain,” Mr. Tusk said. “I say this without satisfaction, but you can’t argue with the facts.”
But it is not the first time Mr. Tusk has expressed his exasperation about the referendum. In a recent BBC documentary, “Inside Europe: Ten Years of Turmoil,” he said that the former prime minister, David Cameron, had never expected to have to hold the referendum because he was not expecting to win the 2015 general election with an outright majority. Had Mr. Cameron been forced to take on a coalition partner, that might well have headed off the vote.
Nor has Mrs. May always escaped his mockery. Last year, Mr. Tusk appeared to joke about Britain’s desire to cherry-pick the best parts of European Union membership while wanting to leave the club, when he posted a picture on Instagram of the prime minister and himself at the cake stand.
The caption read: “A piece of cake, perhaps? Sorry, no cherries.”