
LONDON — After more than a week of campaigning, intriguing and infighting among Conservative Party lawmakers, Britain’s foreign secretary, Jeremy Hunt, won the right on Thursday to take on his more famous and charismatic predecessor, Boris Johnson, in the final phase of the race to become the 
Mr. Hunt was the second choice of Tory lawmakers, well behind Mr. Johnson, and now the two men will compete for the votes of around 160,000 members of the party who will next month select a successor to Prime Minister Theresa May. Mr. Johnson won 160 votes, and Mr. Hunt 77.
Mr. Johnson, whose optimistic, bombastic and entertaining speeches at party conferences have 
transcript
A brash former mayor of London. “The chances of me being prime minister are about as good as finding Elvis on Mars.” Known to many for his political opportunism and for his staunch support of Brexit. “Let’s take back control of huge sums of money, take back control of immigration, take back control of our democracy. Let’s vote for freedom.” Boris Johnson is the embattled prime minister of Britain. So, who is he? Johnson worked for many years as a journalist in Britain. He was fired by The London Times for inventing a quote. It was in Brussels where Johnson made a name for himself writing for The Daily Telegraph. He wrote a string of articles ridiculing European Union bureaucracy that were often exaggerated or wrong. In 2008, he was elected mayor of London. “I declare Boris Johnson the next mayor of London.” He was re-elected four years later. It was London’s 2012 Summer Olympics that put him on the radar for many people in the rest of the world. But in Britain, he’s been associated with one thing in recent years: Brexit. “Now this is a once in a lifetime chance for us to take back control of this country.” When he was mayor of London, Johnson sometimes spoke favorably about the common market with the European Union. But perhaps recognizing a political opportunity, Johnson became one of Brexit’s most vocal supporters. “When you look at the E.U. now, it makes me think of some badly designed undergarment that has now become too tight in some places and dangerously loose in other places.” Johnson’s critics say his strong backing for leaving the European Union was purely tactical. And after a successful campaign, Theresa May named him foreign secretary in 2016. But Johnson said he thought May’s Brexit proposal was too conciliatory to Europe. Rather than supporting her plan, Johnson resigned in protest. “I will shortly leave the job.” When May announced she was stepping aside as prime minister, the stars aligned for Johnson to take over the job he always wanted. “I am standing to be leader of the Conservative Party.” Johnson has vowed that Britain will leave the European Union on Oct. 31, with or without a deal. “I want everybody to know there are no circumstances in which I will ask Brussels to delay. We’re leaving on the 31st of October, no ifs or buts.” But he’s facing some opposition to a no-deal Brexit, even within his own Conservative Party. About the only thing Parliament can agree on is that it doesn’t support a no-deal Brexit. So Johnson has taken to hardball tactics from suspending Parliament, to threatening to kick out rebel Tories for voting against the government. It’s a strategy that may be uniting disparate elements of the opposition and his own party against him. So what’s next? So far, lots of uncertainty. Parliament is considering whether to hold a general election. So Johnson finds himself in familiar territory: facing the same Brexit chaos that took down the two previous Conservative prime ministers.
According to the rumor mill, the mild-mannered Mr. Hunt was the candidate that Mr. Johnson most wanted to face in the runoff, and all day Thursday there was speculation in Parliament of tactical voting by his supporters to eliminate Michael Gove, the environment secretary.
Mr. Gove was Mr. Johnson’s nemesis in 2016, the last time the Conservative leadership was contested, and in the first of two votes held on Thursday, Mr. Hunt had fallen slightly behind Mr. Gove.
Yet, it was 
Though Mr. Hunt opposed Brexit in the 2016 referendum campaign, he now supports it. But lingering suspicions about the depth of his commitment, coupled with his decided lack of charisma on the campaign trail, have led opponents to call him “Theresa May in trousers.”
Mr. Hunt’s public utterances have not always been as vanilla as his critics claim. He once likened the European Union to the Soviet Union, and 
But foreign policy analysts say that he performed significantly better in his post than Mr. Johnson, who never looked comfortable at the Foreign Office and whose careless language was widely blamed for worsening the plight of Nazanin Zaghari-Ratcliffe, a British-Iranian woman 
Mr. Hunt will now have the opportunity to make his pitch for the top job and subject Mr. Johnson to some scrutiny in a series of debates for party members around the country.
Under Britain’s parliamentary system the prime minister is not directly elected but is the leader of the party with a majority in Parliament. That means that if the dominant party’s leadership changes, so does the prime minister.
Mr. Hunt’s father was a senior Royal Navy officer and, like Mr. Johnson, he studied at Oxford University and attended an expensive private school.
A businessman before he went into politics, Mr. Hunt argues that he is well equipped to negotiate a new Brexit agreement with the European Union. And he showed his soothing manner and political skills by surviving a long stint as the health secretary — a difficult job for a Conservative politician, particularly at a time of squeezed public spending.
One big question is how tough Mr. Hunt will be on Mr. Johnson and whether he will raise doubts about his honesty, reliability and competence for the position of prime minister. Although Mr. Hunt criticized Mr. Johnson for ducking out of one TV debate, it was another candidate, 
The other central focus of the next few weeks will be what Mr. Johnson says about Brexit, given that he is very likely to emerge as the next prime minister.
Although hard-line Brexit supporters believe that he has promised them that Britain will leave the European Union, with or without an agreement on the next deadline of Oct. 31, Mr. Johnson has been less explicit in public.
During a BBC debate on Tuesday, Mr. Johnson described that timeline as “eminently feasible,” a phrasing that left significant room for maneuver.
Senior Tories hope that the next phase of the contest will not expose too many internal divisions. The prospect of a race between Mr. Johnson and Mr. Gove, reviving 
The two were friends as students at Oxford and both were journalists before being elected to Parliament. Both also campaigned for Brexit during the 2016 referendum and, when David Cameron resigned as prime minister in its aftermath, Mr. Gove supported Mr. Johnson as the successor.
Mr. Gove then changed his mind, ran himself and justified his betrayal by arguing that Mr. Johnson was not equipped to be prime minister. That wrecked Mr. Johnson’s first attempt to win the Conservative Party leadership and opened the way for Mrs. May to seize the crown instead.
Three years later, and restored to the cabinet, Mr. Gove also posed a threat to Mr. Johnson because he was a supporter of Brexit before him. He therefore had good credentials with Conservative Party members.
But Mr. Gove’s campaign got off to a disastrous start when 