
LONDON — A man who threw a milkshake at Nigel Farage, the leader of Britain’s Brexit Party, pleaded guilty on Tuesday to the attack and was sentenced to carry out 150 hours of community service and to pay Mr. Farage 350 pounds, about $440, in compensation.
The man, Paul Crowther, 32, hurled the milkshake at Mr. Farage during a campaign event last month in the northeastern city of Newcastle, where the politician was trying to garner support for his 
Mr. Crowther was charged with assault and criminal damage to property for covering Mr. Farage’s suit and face in bright patches of banana and salted caramel milkshake.
As one of the earliest proponents of Brexit, Mr. Farage has been a controversial figure in Britain. During the European Parliament campaign, he spoke in favor of the country’s 
Prosecutors 
Britain has experienced passionate and sometimes violent episodes since the 
And 
Stephen Yaxley-Lennon, a British far-right activist known as 
It was also video material that enabled prosecutors to build a case against Mr. Crowther. They said they hoped the case would act “as a deterrent to others considering any criminal form of political protest.”
Mr. Crowther, who was arrested at the scene, later wrote on Facebook about Mr. Farage that “the bile and the racism he spouts out in this country is far more damaging than a bit of milkshake to his front,” 
In court on Tuesday, a lawyer for Mr. Crowther described the episode as a “moment of madness” and said his client now regretted what he had done, 
The assault charge he faced carried a maximum penalty of six months in prison. The charge of criminal damage, which Mr. Crowther faced for damage caused to Mr. Farage’s suit and remote microphone, also includes a maximum sentence of six months in prison.
Some supporters suggested that it was Mr. Crowther who had suffered a loss — of his milkshake, which Mr. Crowther said he had purchased at a nearby fast-food outlet for £5.25. They raised more than £1,700 on a crowdfunding page to “Get Paul Crowther his milkshake money back.”