
Mr. Trump and Queen Elizabeth II exchanged toasts shortly after they arrived at their seats at a lavish state banquet held in Buckingham Palace, where the menu included steamed halibut with watercress mousse and saddle of lamb. Mr. Trump sat to the right of the queen at the horseshoe-shaped table.
The queen, her eyes focused only on her prepared text as she stood beside a seated Mr. Trump, took note of the president’s Scottish ancestry on his mother’s side.
She said that Britain and the United States were “bound by the strength and breadth” of their economic ties. Addressing Mr. Trump, she said, “Mr. President, as we look to the future, I’m confident that our common values and shared interests will continue to unite us.”
The queen also pointedly took note of the multilateral institutions that Britain and the United States helped to create after World War II to prevent another war — institutions, like NATO, that Mr. Trump has denigrated. 
“While the world has changed,” the queen said, “we are forever mindful of the original purpose of these structures.”
Mr. Trump followed with his own toast. Famous for ad-libbing during prepared remarks, Mr. Trump primarily stuck to the script, save for a moment when he called the queen, 93, “a great, great woman.” Mr. Trump also described the queen as a “constant symbol of these priceless traditions” of freedom and sovereignty.
He honored the ties between the nations forged during World War II, which is being celebrated this week. 
The allies “defeated the Nazis and the Nazi regime, and liberated millions from tyranny,” Mr. Trump said. “The bond between our nations was forever sealed in that great crusade.” 
Mr. Trump started the day by traveling to Buckingham Palace via a three-mile helicopter flight from the American ambassador’s residence to meet with Queen Elizabeth for the second time. He was met with an 82-gun salute — 41 shots to honor Mr. Trump and 41 to mark the anniversary on Sunday of the queen’s coronation, which took place in 1953. 
Prince Charles and his wife, Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall, greeted Mr. Trump and the first lady, Melania Trump, after the aircraft landed in the palace grounds. The queen then received the president on the west terrace of Buckingham Palace, before ushering him inside. 
The president’s daughter Ivanka Trump and her husband, Jared Kushner, along with other White House aides, looked on from a balcony throughout the short, but elaborate, welcome ceremony. The president and the first lady were then escorted by the royal family to a courtyard, where Prince Charles accompanied Mr. Trump on an inspection of the guard.
Former President Barack Obama used a motorcade for the same trip in May 2011, driving past cheering crowds on London streets. White House officials did not say why they had opted for a helicopter, though they have been very sensitive to reports of large protests planned for the streets of central London.
Queen Elizabeth, 93, the world’s longest-reigning monarch, has 
Mr. Trump took tea with Prince Charles and Camilla. Prince William and his wife, Catherine, the Duchess of Cambridge, planned to attend the state banquet on Monday evening. 
The BBC reported that Prince Harry’s wife, 
In an interview with the British tabloid The Sun before his arrival, the president was told that Meghan, an American former actress, had said in 2016 that she would move to Canada if he were elected president. 
Later on Twitter, Mr. Trump 
President Trump arrived at Stansted Airport, north of London, around 9 a.m., but even before setting foot in Britain, he had ignited controversy by sending a series of tweets attacking the mayor of London. Moments before his flight landed, Mr. Trump took aim at the mayor, Sadiq Khan, calling him a “stone cold loser” in a series of posts and drew an unflattering comparison to Bill de Blasio, the mayor of New York.
Mr. Trump has feuded with London’s mayor before. When 
Days before Mr. Trump’s visit, Mr. Khan wrote 
While Mr. Trump’s visit is a high-profile engagement full of important meetings about diplomatic and trade issues, the morning of his first day in Britain was punctuated with various Twitter posts. He went from attacking Mr. Khan to commenting on the trade war with China, and then tweeted criticism of CNN.
Mr. Trump will spend three days in Britain. On Monday, he visited Buckingham Palace to meet with Queen Elizabeth II and attended a wreath-laying ceremony at Westminster Abbey. Later, he was to have tea with Prince Charles and attend a state banquet at Buckingham Palace. 
On Tuesday, he will meet with the departing prime minister, Theresa May, at her London residence and hold a joint news conference. On Wednesday morning, Mr. Trump will travel to the southern city of Portsmouth for a D-Day commemoration. He will then fly to Ireland on Wednesday afternoon, where he will meet with that country’s prime minister, Leo Varadkar, and stay overnight at the Trump International golf course in Doonbeg.
After two years of delay, friction and awkwardness, Buckingham Palace announced a date for President Trump’s state visit this past April, after Prime Minister Theresa May conveyed the queen’s invitation to Mr. Trump. 
When Mr. Trump made his first visit to London as president in July 2018, it had been 
Comments from Woody Johnson, the American ambassador to Britain, are likely to complicate matters. 
Supporters of Brexit have held up a trade deal with the United States as one of the prizes of a complete break with the European Union. The pact could be contentious, as some worry that it would force Britain to lower its food and agricultural standards to let in American products.
The possibility of 
In April, Mrs. May called the visit “an opportunity to strengthen our already close relationship” on issues such as trade, investment and security. 
Weeks later, Mrs. May said she would resign, after nearly three years of trying but failing to shepherd Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union. The contest to succeed her will begin on Friday, after she steps down as leader of the Conservative Party.
With polls saying that more than half of Londoners are opposed to President Trump’s state visit, tens of thousands are expected to demonstrate against the president in the British capital on Tuesday, the second day of his visit. 
And the much-publicized Trump baby — a 20-foot orange balloon depicting the president snarling in a diaper and clutching a cellphone — is likely to return to the air after organizers surpassed their crowdfunding target of 30,000 pounds, about $38,000. The blimp also appeared during the president’s visit to Britain 
Protesters vowed to bring central London to a standstill during the rally on Tuesday, prompting the city’s police force to prepare what it called “a multifaceted security operation.” Smaller demonstrations were also expected in other cities across Britain.
But some were quick to point out that it was in Britain’s best interests to tolerate Mr. Trump as the leader of the United States, despite the opposition of many to his visit.
“Donald Trump is an embarrassment who lacks any kind of dignity and has interfered outrageously in our national affairs,” John Simpson, a prominent correspondent for the BBC tweeted on Monday. “BUT he is the (temporary) leader of our close friend and ally, and we owe it to the US to put up with him as best we can.” 
Thousands stood and stared at the palace gates as a light breeze moved the American and British flags that decorated the grounds in honor of President Trump’s visit, though not everyone was there for a glimpse of the leader. 
“I’m here to see the changing of the guard, but I’ll be happy if I get to be in a group of people who dislike him as much as me,” said Kayla Becwar, an artist from Colorado who was on vacation in London. She said she hoped that people would protest the president’s visit.
Some Britons, like 68-year-old Tony Holdcroft, who was draped in the Union Jack, and his wife, Jennifer, 70, said they were delighted to welcome Mr. Trump. 
“We wish he’d run our country,” Mr. Holdcroft said.
Others were less enthusiastic. David Southard, who said he happened to be in London for the day and had decided to come for a look, said he felt the state visit was unwarranted. 
“He behaves like an elderly billionaire, without any diplomacy or thought, and displays a massive immaturity,” Mr. Southard said.
John Bercow, 
In 2017, Mr. Bercow said Mr. Trump had “
The leader of the opposition Labour Party, Jeremy Corbyn, also declined an invitation to the state dinner. Unlike Mr. Bercow, he elaborated on his decision in 
“Theresa May should not be rolling out the red carpet for a state visit to honor a president who rips up vital international treaties, backs climate change denial and uses racist and misogynist rhetoric,” Mr. Corbyn said.
Queen Elizabeth and Melania Trump watched as President Trump and Prince Charles inspected an honor guard at Buckingham Palace, giving onlookers a chance to assess the women’s wardrobes. 
According to Rebecca English, royal correspondent for The Daily Mail, the queen was wearing a Stewart Parvin outfit, featuring a muted jade A-line coat, pleated silk dress in shades of gray, jade and dusky pink, and a matching hat by Rachel Trevor-Morgan. Her brooch was emerald, diamond, and pearl drop.
Mrs. Trump was wearing a white suit and hat with dark trim. The dress was from Dolce & Gabbana and the hat was by Hervé Pierre, according to the First Lady’s spokeswoman, Stephanie Grisham.
Mrs. May’s rivals have already begun angling to succeed her, 
He added, “He has been very positive about me and our country.” (Mr. Johnson was born in the United States but renounced his American citizenship in 2017.)
It is unclear whether the praise will reap benefits for Mr. Johnson, given 
While Mr. Trump has had 
“Nigel Farage is a friend of mine, Boris is a friend of mine, they’re two very good guys, very interesting people,” Mr. Trump told reporters on Thursday.
Mark Landler, Maggie Haberman, Benjamin Mueller, Megan Specia, Iliana Magra, Alan Yuhas, Palko Karasz and Rick Gladstone contributed reporting.