
LONDON — One of President Trump’s earliest memories, one he routinely recounts to journalists and biographers, is of watching his mother watch television, so enthralled that she barely moved for hours, on the day in 1953 that Queen Elizabeth was crowned.
He was only 6 years old, but he understood that the gilded spectacle unfolding more than 3,400 miles away inside Westminster Abbey struck a chord in his mother, Mary Anne MacLeod Trump, a poor girl who had immigrated from Scotland and who had worked for a time as a housemaid in a grand mansion. He also understood that, for some reason, the same spectacle offended his father.
“I also remember my father that day, pacing around impatiently, ‘For Christ’s sake, Mary,’ he said, ‘enough is enough, turn it off. They’re all a bunch of con artists,’ ” Mr. Trump recalled, years later. “My mother didn’t even look up. They were total opposites in that sense.”
Mr. Trump tells this story in his book “The Art of the Deal” as an explanation for why he was not satisfied with simply inheriting his father’s business. His mother had passed on a love of spectacle and grandeur, as expressed in the coronation — “loftier dreams” of “splendor and magnificence.”
The story also explains why this week’s visit to Britain matters to the president, who throughout his life has expressed a desire to be close to, or on an equal footing with, the British royal family. Though Mr. Trump 
“This is more important than any piece of legislation he could get through Congress, greater than resolving problems at the border with Mexico,” said Michael D’Antonio, the author of “The Truth About Trump,” a 2016 biography.“I would think one of his dying thoughts will be of this. When he is about to leave this earth, he will think, ‘I was that person, standing with the queen.’ ”
Mr. Trump likes to declare that he does not respect most people, because “most people are not worthy of respect,” said Mr. D’Antonio, who said that he interviewed Mr. Trump for about eight hours.
“The queen may be one of the only people on Earth who could expect he was going to be respectful,” he said. “It is sincere. He is as sincere as he can be about anything with this respect.”
Mr. Trump arrived in London on Monday morning, 
But the royal family has plenty of experience hosting contentious figures, said Andrew Morton, the author of several royal biographies. The queen is expected to remain neutral on political matters, so she will steer clear of divisive topics.
“They tend not to take a view, or try not to,” Mr. Morton said.
But in some cases, he added, “they take the view that they can influence things.” Prince Charles, for example, may try to influence Mr. Trump on climate change, Mr. Morton said, adding that the prince has the power to extend invitations to the next coronation.
Thomas Wright, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, said that in the past, private conversations with “iconic individuals” have made an impression on Mr. Trump’s thinking.
“If the queen says something to him, he might take it to heart,” he said. “He would probably tell everyone about it.”
In a sense, it is curious that Mr. Trump’s mother, born Mary Anne MacLeod, was such a royalist.
Her forbears had been impoverished and evicted from their farms in a land grab by English-backed Scottish lords, known as the Highland Clearances, writes Nina Burleigh in “Golden Handcuffs: The Secret History of Trump’s Women.”
The youngest of 10 children, Mr. Trump’s mother sailed to the United States around 1930, reporting to American immigration officials that she had an eighth-grade education. Late in life, she had a taste for luxury, which her son was happy to indulge, said Gwenda Blair, the author of “The Trumps: Three Generations That Built an Empire.”
“The photos that we see of Queen Elizabeth in her dowager clothes, and often, if it is winter, in some extremely luxurious warm fur coat, reminds me of how his mother came across,” she said. Mrs. Trump died, age 88, in 2000.
As a real estate developer and television personality, Mr. Trump seemed to regard the royal family as a benchmark for prestige. In the 1980s, he circulated a rumor that Prince Charles and his wife, Diana, were considering purchasing a unit at Trump Tower, Mr. D’Antonio wrote in his book.
He expressed attraction to Diana, Princess of Wales, sometimes in crude terms.
Selina Scott, a British journalist who interviewed him for a documentary in 1995, 
In 1997, shortly after Diana had died in a car accident, Mr. Trump told the television journalist Stone Phillips that he regretted not having asked her on a date. “Do you think you would have seriously had a shot?” Mr. Phillips asked.
“I think so, yeah,” Mr. Trump replied. “I always have a shot.”
Mr. Trump returned to the subject with the radio host Howard Stern, 
Mr. Trump also made a comment about Catherine Middleton, now the Duchess of Cambridge, after a photographer took a picture of her sunbathing topless in 2012.
“Who wouldn’t take Kate’s picture and make lots of money if she does the nude sunbathing thing,” 
He also hoped to acquire some of the trappings of royalty. Mr. Morton, Diana’s biographer, recalled that he was giving a speech about her around that time at Mr. Trump’s Mar-a-Lago Club. One of the club managers approached him to ask if he could help Mr. Trump hire Paul Burrell, who had worked as Queen Elizabeth’s footman and Diana’s butler.
The two families couldn’t be more different, Mr. Morton said.
“I would argue that Trump is more royal than the queen, he behaves more like a potentate,” he said, adding that Mr. Trump had an “ostentatious type of living, whereas the British royal family are known for their parsimony. The queen famously collects string, and eats her breakfast out of Tupperware.”
Mr. Morton said that, for Mr. Trump, Monday’s state dinner represented a particularly important stamp of approval.
“What strikes me about people around the world, if they’ve had any interaction with the monarch, it defines their lives,” he said. “They save the invitation, they save the train ticket, they save the article in the newspaper.”
It will be the same, he said, for Mr. Trump.
“If he is accorded love by the queen, he will be smiling like a Cheshire cat,” he said. “He will be purring away.”