
LONDON — Many Londoners are proud to be part of a city that is both very English and exceptionally multicultural. So when the comedian and 
“Some years ago I opined that London was not really an English city any more,” 
The 79-year-old Mr. Cleese 
Those who found the tweet disturbing included Mayor Sadiq Khan of London, who 
“Londoners know that our diversity is our greatest strength,” Mr. Khan 
In addition to being one of the creators of “Monty Python’s Flying Circus,” Mr. Cleese played the eminently English innkeeper Basil Fawlty in the BBC sitcom “Fawlty Towers,” first broadcast in 1975.
“These comments make John Cleese sound like he’s in character as Basil Fawlty,” Mr. Khan wrote.
Others posted variations on that theme, 
As part of the often-provocative Monty Python troupe, Mr. Cleese has defended the role of comedy in a democratic society. In recent years, he campaigned on behalf of the Liberal Democrats to change how members of Parliament are elected, and for more oversight of the tabloid press that he particularly despised.
Some users on Twitter said they were sad about Mr. Cleese’s comments. “I know he’s grown old and grumpy etc. etc. but he was a great hero of mine,” 
Mr. Cleese has declined a state honor from the queen, calling it “silly,” and 
London, by far the largest city in Britain, is also its most diverse. More than a third of the population was born outside Britain, and over 20 percent are not British nationals, 
Wednesday night, Mr. Cleese 
Mr. Cleese has said that his dissatisfaction with Britain motivated his own “leave” decision. But observers, including in replies to Mr. Cleese’s tweet on Wednesday, noted that he himself had suggested that he moved to the Caribbean 
Responding to his critics on Twitter, Mr. Cleese stopped short of an apology. “I suspect I should apologize for my affection for the Englishness of my upbringing,” he wrote Wednesday night. “But in some ways I found it calmer, more polite, more humorous, less tabloid, and less money oriented than the one that is replacing it.”