
As Sherlock Holmes observed,
The impossible, in this case, has been Brexit. Theresa May, the British prime minister who 
“Brexit means Brexit,” she famously intoned, without ever finding the courage or conviction to elaborate. This was a problem, given that the matter at hand was one of her country’s gravest peacetime decisions. Obstinacy, rather than some idea for Britain’s future, drove her. Britain had voted, almost three years ago now; she would be the delivery woman.
No matter that evidence of the negative impact of Brexit accumulated daily — slower growth, lower investment, lost banking jobs, factory closures — or that the United Kingdom might break up or that Parliament three times rejected May’s proposed deal or that democracies have been known to 
So what, in Holmes’s formula, remains? What is the truth? A leadership contest will begin in May’s Conservative Party and the winner will become prime minister, with the task of resolving the Brexit debacle. Her most likely successor, given the extent of rabid pro-Brexit sentiment among Tories, is Boris Johnson, the unscrupulous, ramshackle, flip-flopping, dissembling former foreign secretary, whose uncertain relationship with the truth and unwavering narcissism resemble Donald Trump’s.
“He’s got what it takes,” Trump, 
With Johnson as leader, the 
There are other candidates, including some like Home Secretary Sajid Javid or Foreign Secretary Jeremy Hunt, who are more committed to a deal with the union as the foundation for an orderly departure. But even as polls suggest many Britons have reconsidered their vote in 2016, and that a second referendum would reverse the result, the Conservative Party is being pushed relentlessly rightward by the jingoistic, right-wing faction that Johnson most vividly embodies. He has wanted to be prime minister for a very long time; he will do anything to get to Downing Street.
Still, Johnson’s timing could be bad. The 
The center is weaker than ever before in Britain. The political makeup of the country is in flux. The very survival of the country is in question, torn by intra-Irish tensions over the European Union and Scotland’s strong desire to stay in the union. The poison of Brexit keeps on giving for the simple reason that 
Johnson, if chosen, could try to call an early election to bolster his position for a hard Brexit, but Farage’s party will eat away at the Tory vote, and, in the words of Hugo Dixon, the deputy chairman of a grass-roots movement for a second referendum, “If Johnson opts for a pact with Farage, that would cause yet further havoc.”
One thing is certain: If there were a general election with Johnson leading the Tories and Corbyn, the man who has opened the floodgates for anti-Semitism in his Labour Party, as the mainstream alternative, many reasonable people in Britain would find themselves physically incapable of voting for either.
However improbable it was that a normally prudent nation would vote for self-amputation from a 46-year membership in a union of a half-billion Europeans that has brought it prosperity and influence, this happened. The consequences have proved impossible to manage. There is no parliamentary majority for any form of Brexit. 
May’s departure changes the scenery, but does not alter Britain’s drift into a paralyzing impasse that only a second referendum can resolve. With the lies now uncovered, the reality revealed, the