
transcript
I feel as certain today as I did three years ago that in a democracy, if you give people a choice, you have a duty to implement what they decide. I have done my best to do that. I negotiated the terms of our exit and a new relationship with our closest neighbors that protects jobs, our security and our union. I have done everything I can to convince M.P.s to back that deal. Sadly, I have not been able to do so. But it is now clear to me that is it, it is in the best interests of the country for a new prime minister to lead that effort. So I am today announcing that I will resign as leader of the Conservative and Unionist Party, on Friday the 7th of June, so that a successor can be chosen. I will shortly leave the job that it has been the honor of my life to hold. The second female prime minister, but certainly not the last. I do so with no ill will, but with enormous and enduring gratitude to have had the opportunity to serve the country I love.
Facing a cabinet rebellion, Theresa May set out Friday morning a timetable for her departure from
Standing in front of 10 Downing Street, Mrs. May said it was in the “best interests of the country for a new prime minister” to lead Britain through the Brexit process. She announced plans to step down as the leader of the Conservative Party on June 7, with the process to replace her beginning the following week. She will remain as a lame-duck prime minister until a new leader is chosen, probably by the end of July. 
“I feel as certain today as I did three years ago that in a democracy, if you give people a choice you have a duty to implement what they decide. I have done my best to do that,” she added. “I have done everything I can to convince M.P.s to back that deal. Sadly, I have not been able to do so.”
Mrs. May’s voice cracked as she said she was honored to serve the country as the “second female prime minister, but certainly not the last,” and said the role had been the honor of her life. 
The speech followed a meeting with Graham Brady, a powerful leader of backbench Conservative lawmakers. 
She will continue as a member of Parliament after stepping down as prime minister, the Press Association news agency has reported.
European Union officials worry about what comes next, but they insisted that their position on Brexit would not budge. The bloc’s leaders did not want Britain to leave, but they remain committed to the withdrawal agreement Mrs. May negotiated, even if the next prime minister is a hard-line Brexiteer who tries to drive a harder bargain.
“We are ready, we have been ready, we continue to be ready whatever the scenario is,” said Mina Andreeva, a European Commission spokeswoman. But, she added, the commission would prefer “an orderly withdrawal on the basis of the withdrawal agreement that has been negotiated with the U.K.”
The view from Brussels is that the choices remain the negotiated deal, an economically damaging “cliff edge” Brexit without a deal, or no Brexit at all.
A spokeswoman for the Spanish government called Mrs. May’s resignation “bad news” because it makes a no-deal Brexit more likely.
In Paris, the German ambassador to France, Nikolaus Meyer-Landrut, speaking at an event hosted by the American University of Paris, noted the resignation of Mrs. May and said that Germany was always willing to give the British more time to sort out the Brexit impasse.
But even with Mrs. May’s resignation, he said, Brexit and its dilemmas remained. “Brexit yes or no,’’ he said. “But more important is, Brexit how? Every how has a price. And the British begin to understand how high is the price.”
Conservative lawmakers have been positioning themselves for a leadership contest for months. Several were already campaigning actively before Mrs. May announced her decision to resign.
Candidates for party leadership have to be nominated by two other members of Parliament, though if there is only one candidate, he or she automatically becomes the new leader. If more than two candidates emerge, lawmakers vote among themselves to narrow the field and then put two candidates to a vote by all Conservative Party members, who number approximately 120,000.
The Conservative Party chairman, Brandon Lewis, said in a statement on Friday that lawmakers would begin their voting process on June 10, and that the new leader would be in place before Parliament’s summer break, which usually begins in late July.
Hard-line Brexit supporters will be determined to replace Mrs. May with someone from their ranks. The former foreign secretary, Boris Johnson; the former Brexit secretary, Dominic Raab; and Andrea Leadsom, who left her cabinet post as leader of the House of Commons on Wednesday, are seen as likely contenders.
But less ideological figures are likely to put themselves forward, too, including Jeremy Hunt, the foreign secretary, and Sajid Javid, the home secretary.
Conservative lawmakers have been deeply frustrated by Mrs. May’s failure to deliver on Brexit, which became the government’s central — some would say its sole — preoccupation after the country 
But the breaking point has come at an awkward moment, with President Trump scheduled to arrive in Britain on June 3 for a state visit and to take part in events to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the D-Day landings that preceded the end of World War II. 
Mr. Trump and Mrs. May are to meet at 10 Downing Street on June 4, according to a schedule released by Buckingham Palace. Mr. Trump is also to attend a state banquet at Buckingham Palace, hosted by the queen. 
Mrs. May’s ability to soak up political punishment and plow on regardless 
Then, the government announced that Britain would, after all, take part in elections to the European Parliament this week — another symbol of Mrs. May’s failure to achieve a withdrawal. Britons voted on Thursday, but the results will be announced on Sunday, after all the European Union countries have gone to the polls. They are expected to be catastrophic for the Conservatives.
Even in her departure speech, Mrs. May drew ire from some in the country who saw her language as insulting.
First, she quoted 
She recalled that he had pulled her aside at a local event and extolled the value of compromise, advice she said she worried lawmakers had forgotten. Some analysts hailed the line as a powerful, if belated, pitch for an elusive compromise. 
But immigration advocates saw that as a shameless attempt to use Mr. Winton’s legacy by a prime minister who had made anti-migrant policies a centerpiece of her political career.
“Theresa May did everything in her power to keep vulnerable refugees out of the U.K. and introduced the hostile environment. Makes me livid,” Colin Yeo, an immigration lawyer, 
Mrs. May was previously Britain’s home secretary, and implemented a “hostile environment” policy that obliged businesses and private landlords, as well as public officials, to check the immigration papers of job applicants, renters, medical patients, banking customers and more. It gave rise to the Windrush scandal, in which people from Caribbean countries were wrongly denied rights or deported from Britain.
Then, Mrs. May pointed to her government’s response to 
“Many of the underlying issues at Grenfell were due to unsafe conditions that had been allowed to fester under Tory governments and a council for which Theresa May bears ultimate responsibility,” the statement read.
Britain has taken several economic hits recently, and business leaders are worried about the prospect of more gridlock in Parliament, potentially leading to a harmful “no deal” Brexit on Oct. 31.
“There are only five months before Britain crashes out of the E.U. without a deal, causing prices to rise and reducing the availability of many goods on the shelves,” Helen Dickinson, chief executive of the British Retail Consortium, said in a statement.
Despite such concerns, British stocks rose slightly on Thursday.
A number of businesses, wary of Brexit and the uncertainty surrounding it, 
For months, retailers stockpiled goods ahead of previous Brexit deadlines for fear that traffic jams and issues at the border would prevent food from getting into the country. Britain imports about half its food from or via the European Union.
Throughout Mrs. May’s protracted fall, Conservative lawmakers were eager to avoid being seen as the proverbial “men in gray suits” ushering out Britain’s second female prime minister, even as they worked hard behind the scenes to do just that.
The party suffered after being seen to humiliate Margaret Thatcher, Britain’s first female prime minister, when she was forced out in 1990. But in the days before Mrs. May announced her resignation plans, the echoes were hard to avoid.
Lawmakers raised the prospect of Mrs. May’s husband, Philip, intervening, much as Ms. Thatcher’s husband, Denis, was famously said to have urged her to stand down.
Iain Duncan Smith, a prominent Brexiteer and former Conservative party leader, said in a radio interview about Mrs. May: “The only person closest to her is clearly her husband, and I think somebody has to say, ‘Look, nobody likes this.’”
A British tabloid, Metro, played up those appeals with the headline, “Just Tell Her Phil.”
It has been a long time since so many prominent political figures had nice things to say about Mrs. May.
Compliments poured in from opposition lawmakers who have tried to oust her, and from fellow Conservatives who have undermined her and hope to take her place. Some were backhanded, some barbed, and still others gave no hint of the history of animosity behind them.
“Thank you for your stoical service to our country and the Conservative Party,” tweeted Mr. Johnson, who quit Mrs. May’s cabinet over Brexit and who has never concealed his ambition to be prime minister.
Nicola Sturgeon, first minister of Scotland and leader of the Scottish National Party, retweeted Mr. Johnson with the comment, “What a hypocrite.”
Two other Conservatives who quit Mrs. May’s cabinet over Brexit and would like to take her place, 
The 
Jeremy Corbyn, the Labour leader, 
But few politicians could put themselves in her place as completely as her immediate predecessor, David Cameron, whose own six-year premiership was torpedoed three years ago — also by Brexit.
“I know what it feels like when you come to realize your leadership time has finished, that the country needs a new leader, and it’s extremely difficult and painful to step outside Downing Street and say those things,” he told reporters on Friday, standing on a picturesque country road, amid waving grasses. 
One could also argue that Mr. Cameron left the problem in her lap: He is the one who promised to hold the Brexit referendum, a monumental gamble he made to placate the Euroskeptic wing of his party.
The basics of Brexit, the troubled plan for Britain to quit the European Union.