
LONDON — Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain has announced that she will 
But deep divisions within the party and the nation over Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union proved fatal to Mrs. May’s leadership, and it is not clear that a successor would fare any better. The race is already shaping up to be a crowded one, with near daily announcements from Conservative Party lawmakers throwing their hats into the ring.
Anyone seeking the job has to be nominated by two members of Parliament. If there is only one candidate, he or she automatically becomes the new leader. If there are more than two, lawmakers vote among themselves to narrow the field to two candidates, who then are put to a vote by the 120,000 mostly white, mostly aging Conservative Party members. The party said it expected to begin the nomination process in the week of June 10, after Mrs. May steps aside, and to complete the process by the end of July.
By Wednesday, 11 candidates had declared their intention to run to succeed the prime minister. Others had yet to make a public announcement. Here are the potential successors seen as having the best chance to become head of the Conservative Party and, eventually, prime minister.
Mr. Johnson, 54, the former foreign secretary and one of the most outspoken critics of Mrs. May’s Brexit plan, is one of the most polarizing figures in British politics but seen by some hard-line Brexit supporters as a good choice.
He was a figurehead in the campaign to leave the European Union, and since the 2016 referendum has pushed for a hard split with the bloc. This stance regularly put him at odds with Mrs. May as she fought for a deal that would, supposedly temporarily, maintain relatively closer ties to Europe, and he 
On Friday, that history seemed distant immediately after Mrs. May’s announcement. In a statement posted on Twitter, he thanked Mrs. May for her “stoical service to our country and the Conservative Party” and urged lawmakers to heed her call to deliver Brexit.
Mr. Johnson first gained notoriety for his bombastic displays as mayor of London from 2008 to 2016, before returning to Parliament. He was one of the most prominent voices of the Leave campaign that urged Britain to vote for the country’s exit from the European Union, and since the 2016 referendum has advocated a hard split. 
Mr. Johnson served as foreign secretary in Mrs. May’s cabinet, but 
Like Mr. Johnson, Mr. Raab has long advocated a sharp severing of ties with Europe. At 45, he is seen by some in the party as a youthful face who could redefine the leadership role, and he 
He served for a short time as Brexit secretary. But he 
Ms. Leadsom, 56, has put herself forward for the party leadership before — in May 2016, she went up against Mrs. May after Prime Minister David Cameron stepped down in the wake of the referendum on Britain’s membership in the European Union.
She unexpectedly dropped out before the issue was put to a vote, after her chances were damaged by comments she made in an interview with The Times of London in which she suggested that she was a better candidate for the premiership because she is a mother, unlike Mrs. May.
This week, she resigned as the leader of the House of Commons, seemingly taking steps to distance herself from the failing leadership. She has been a vocal supporter of a clean break with the European Union.
Mr. Gove, 51, the environment secretary, formerly served as justice secretary and education secretary, and is seen by some as a front-runner for the leadership role.
Before the 2016 referendum, he campaigned for Britain’s exit, and he has largely backed the prime minister’s strategy during her time in office. He was vocal in his 
Mr. Gove proved an unlikely ally after he 
“Whatever charisma is, I don’t have it,” Mr. Gove said at the time. “Whatever glamour may be, I don’t think anyone could ever associate me with it.”
Mr. Hunt, 52, replaced Mr. Johnson as foreign secretary, having served as health secretary for the previous six years.
Like Mrs. May, Mr. Hunt voted for Britain to remain in the European Union in the 2016 referendum. But in the years since, Mr. Hunt has become a supporter of the decision to leave, citing the 
He was a vocal supporter of Mrs. May’s initial withdrawal deal, though on Thursday he 
Mr. Javid, 49, the home secretary, once supported remaining in the European Union but has since thrown his support behind the efforts to leave. On Monday, he announced his intention to 
The son of immigrants from Pakistan, Mr. Javid was a successful banker before turning to politics.
Mr. Javid has been positioning himself for a potential leadership role since early this year, making waves with the decision to 
Mr. Lidington, 62, supported the campaign for Britain to remain in the European Union, and as Mrs. May’s de facto deputy is seen by some as her natural successor. When speculation arose last year about 
But others believe his prospects are slim. He has long expressed admiration for Mrs. May and worked to rally support for her unpopular Brexit deal, but has said his position has given him a unique view of the difficult nature of the premiership.
“One thing that working closely with the prime minister does is cure you completely of any lingering shred of ambition to want to do that task,” he 
Mr. Hancock, 40, the health secretary, supported remaining in the European Union, and he has since been a staunch opponent of a no-deal exit from the bloc.
He vowed when he entered the race on Saturday to deliver Brexit should he become the next prime minister, but added that 
A graduate of Oxford, Mr. Hancock worked as an economist at the Bank of England and as chief of staff to the lawmaker who speaks for the opposition on economic and financial matters. He became a member of Parliament himself in 2010.
Damian Green, a former secretary of state, said in 
Ms. McVey, 51, the former secretary of state for work and pensions, voted in 2016 to leave the European Union, and she has recently come out in support of a no-deal Brexit.
“The Withdrawal Agreement ship has sailed and needs to be put out of its misery,” 
She also said that she would increase school and police funding, while reducing foreign spending. “I’m standing on a blue-collar Conservative platform,” she said.
Ms. McVey has previously come under fire for a controversial speech on the rise of food banks, and for voting against same-sex marriage.
Mr. Stewart, the secretary of state for international development, has been gaining ground as a measured, moderate Conservative candidate, especially after a certain declaration on Saturday.
“I’m afraid I would not be able to serve in a Boris Johnson cabinet,” he told Sky News, on the basis that Mr. Johnson “will try to crash” Britain out of the European Union.
He followed this up with a Twitter post that many saw as a jibe against Mr. Johnson, the front-runner in the race to succeed Mrs. May.
Mr. Stewart, 46, was a Labour supporter in his teens, and served as a diplomat in the Middle East before entering Parliament in 2010. He was one of the more vocal supporters of Mrs. May’s compromise Brexit deal.
“I just think although people pretend they want a Brexit deal, it turns out that far too many Remainers simply do not want to accept the result of the referendum and far too many Brexiteers have convinced themselves that no deal is the sensible, practicable thing to do and I don’t think it is,” 
Mr. Cleverly, 49, has been a member of Parliament since 2015, making him a relative newcomer to national politics. He put himself forward for the leadership role on Wednesday with 
“To inspire the British people we need to look different, sound different, and offer something new,” he wrote. “I believe I can do that.”
Shortly after announcing his candidacy, Mr. Cleverly told 
“Not delivering Brexit would be significantly more damaging” for the Conservative Party and the country at large than leaving without a deal, he asserted.
Mr. Malthouse, 52, entered Parliament in 2015. He is the minister of state for housing, and is seen by many as a rising star within the government.
He also brokered the 
“We have to unify around a Brexit plan that will get us out on Oct. 31,” 
Mr. Harper, who was first elected as a member of Parliament in 2005, has served in numerous posts in Britain’s cabinet, including government chief whip and minister for disabled people.
But he came under fire during his tenure as the immigration minister that lasted from 2012 to 2014 for being behind the government’s controversial 
Mr. Harper was against Britain’s exit from the European Union, but he has since pledged to deliver Brexit and “honor the decision that the British people took in 2016 to leave the EU,” he wrote in his 
“I am not prepared to see our democracy damaged.”
Mr. Gyimah entered Parliament for the first time in 2010, and was previously a minister for various fiels, including universities, prisons and child care.
He announced his candidacy with a rare pledge for a Conservative: to hold a second referendum.
Mr. Gyimah resigned from Mrs. May’s cabinet in November, after he 
He said he decided to run for party leader and prime minister to broaden the race.
“There is a wide range of candidates, but there is a narrow set of views on Brexit being discussed,” he told Sky News on Sunday.
“Parliament is deadlocked,” he said. “We want to be able to bring the country together,” adding that the people’s final say on the Brexit deal would unite Britain.