
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning,
We start today with the looming departure of 
The British prime minister next month will 
She agreed to set the timetable after a looming parliamentary vote on her plan to remove Britain from the European Union, according to a statement from one of her Conservative Party’s leading figures. Previously, she had hinged her resignation on the approval of her plan, which has been rejected three times. 
Now, she has essentially promised to leave no matter what. 
President Trump told his acting defense secretary, Patrick Shanahan, that 
The officials said Mr. Trump was resolute. His response came during a briefing on rising tensions with Iran, and he also said Wednesday that he was confident Iran “will want to talk soon.” 
No new information was presented at the meeting arguing for further engagement with Iran. 
Mr. Pei, 
His gracious but firm air made him one of the few architects who were equally attractive to real estate developers, corporate chieftains and art museum boards.
His museum oeuvre culminated in the call to design the Museum of Islamic Art, in Doha, Qatar, in 2008, a challenge Mr. Pei accepted with relish. See it and five other important works from him 
Italy’s hard-line interior minister, Matteo Salvini, has conducted a perpetual campaign across the country — from the farm fair in the central city of Tarquinia on May 1 to the “Motorfest” in the northern city of Bra to meetings at Sicilian markets.
The most immediate reward is 
But a victory there is simply a steppingstone to the big prize: the case for new elections at home, where he is already reshaping politics. 
Shortly after voting in India comes to a close on Sunday, the curtain will inch up on the last act of the largest election in history.
Official results won’t be announced until next Thursday, but local news media will immediately begin to talk about the exit polls conducted over the weeks of voting.
Expect lots of predictions. And here are a few things to look out for in the tangle of headlines.
First, watch for results from Valsad, Gujarat, and from West Delhi. These two constituencies have voted for the overall winner in every election since 1977, according to “The Verdict: Decoding India’s Elections.”
“Interestingly, there is not one bellwether constituency among the southern states of India,” wrote the authors, Prannoy Roy and Dorab Sopariwala. That exemplifies the south’s political difference from the rest of the country.
Second, look at voter turnout figures. Mr. Roy and Mr. Sopariwala found that the governing Bharatiya Janata Party performs better in constituencies where turnout dips below 60 percent.
That may reflect the B.J.P.’s focus on organization. The party has large numbers of ground-level volunteers who mobilize supporters on voting day. 
And 
Bicycle makers of yore — meaning in the 1800s — had yet to discover gearing. In the hunt for speed, “velocipedes” came to 
That was the style Britain called the penny-farthing, because it looked like a giant penny paired with the much smaller farthing coin. It offered a thrilling but forbiddingly dangerous ride.
But the 1800s were a time of invention. An Englishman named John Kemp Starley introduced a radical improvement in 1885: the “Rover safety bicycle,” with two same-sized wheels.
A few innovations later, he had the basics of what has been called 
The bicycle has become the most popular personal transport in the world. Estimates of the number of bikes in use around the globe run 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Melina