
Martin Parr is something of a cottage industry in Britain. The photographer’s name, likeness and 
Yet for all his success, according to “Only Human,” the new monograph by Phaidon Press that accompanies his show at the National Portrait Gallery in London, Mr. Parr almost wasn’t elected to Magnum in the first place.
 When he first tried to gain 
Known for using humor in his photography, Mr. Parr enjoyed skewering his fellow Brits.
“The tradition of Magnum that he upheld,” Mr. Parr said, referring to Mr. Griffiths, “was the humanistic approach of photojournalism, whose job it is to change the world.” Mr. Pharr continued, “My job is to observe it and do my own personal interpretation, which is indeed open-ended.”
“Only Human” features 19 years’ worth of Mr. Parr’s work, though most of the photographs were taken during the last decade. His vision of 21st Century Britain includes images dealing with the influx of immigrants into England and the rise of the nationalist backlash that led to Brexit.
“My relationship with Britain is very therapeutic,” he said. “I have great affection for the country. I’m very annoyed by the bigotry that was exposed through the Brexit process. These contradictions and ambiguities are something to try to indicate, illustrate and resonate with in the photographs.”
For “Autoportrait,” he spent years allowing his formal portrait to be taken by local photographers around the world, done in their personal styles. Whether 
“That’s how you make things funny,” he said. “By deadpan. Looking serious. If you’re laughing in a photo, it’s never going to be a funny photo.”
The London 
It provided a challenge, given Mr. Parr’s humility, to get him to talk too much about his success, and he clearly preferred discussing 
He’s happy to help others on the way up, specifically 
“Because I’ve earned the position of being a tastemaker, I try to use that position responsibly and try to promote people I think are very good,” he said. “And give them a little push up the ladder.”
Over the long conversation, Mr. Parr deflected many attempts at praise for his accomplishments (including when he mentioned that Lee Friedlander has more than 100 books as well), but in light of his current success, he was willing to be philosophical for a moment in the end.
“I told myself that people take my work seriously, and I’m paid to do my hobby,” he said. “It’s a wonderful privilege, and I’m grateful to have these opportunities to get the work out. I’m quite humbled by it all.”