
I’m a fan of ranked-choice voting. I think it’s a fairer way to decide elections than the more common method, in which each person can vote for only a first choice. 
The 2000 presidential election highlighted the problem with this first-choice system. That year, more Floridians preferred Al Gore to George W. Bush. But Bush won, because some of the people who preferred Gore to Bush voted for Ralph Nader as their first choice. 
In ranked-choice voting, people can list multiple candidates, in order of preference. If your first choice isn’t among the top two vote-getters, your later choices start to matter. And the method has 
Now there is another way in which ranked choice could be useful: Solving the Brexit mess.
Brexit is at a standstill because none of the options has the support of a majority of Parliament (or, it seems, of the British people). Yesterday, Parliament voted on eight different proposals under which Britain could leave the European Union. None got a majority. Prime Minister Theresa May has even offered to resign if Parliament passes her plan, knowing that would appeal to many members of Parliament. In previous votes, the May
So some observers have begun calling for a ranked-choice solution. In effect, it would winnow down the options to the two most popular and then force Parliament to choose between them. “The great virtue of this voting system,” 
Notably, one of the only proposals that 
I’ll confess to being torn about my hopes here. On the one hand, I think ranked-choice voting is a fair way for Parliament to find the most acceptable version of Brexit. On the other, I wouldn’t mind if Parliament were to find any acceptable version and then put the entire matter before the British public 
Related: On the 
For anyone interested in economic diversity in higher education — as I am — I recommend a new film that follows three high school students in Brooklyn as they try to navigate the application process. It’s called 
The film feels particularly timely in the wake of the college admissions scandal. The experiences of the three students in “Personal Statement” are much closer to the American norm than the elite world of, say, 
One of the film’s students, Enoch Jemmott, who’s now a senior at Queens College, has 