
LONDON — British lawmakers endure a lot of distractions when they speak in the unruly Parliament, where their colleagues jeer, wave papers and stop them to pose questions. But one lawmaker faced a very different, harder-to-ignore sort of interruption on Monday.
Protesters 
“I encourage everybody to look in this direction rather than another direction,” said Peter Kyle, the Labour lawmaker who was trying in vain to hold the room’s attention as he presented a motion for a second referendum on Britain’s departure, the process known as Brexit.
[
To his disappointment, most of the people in the elegant, wood-paneled chamber gazed upward, at the spectacle in the visitors’ gallery. There, a dozen men and women, all with messages scrawled on their bodies, stood in a row, turning their backsides to the protective glass barrier separating the public from the House of Commons, in full sight of sitting lawmakers.
Some lawmakers took out phones and snapped pictures. Others sighed or gasped in dismay.
One lawmaker, Nick Boles, said: “Mr. Speaker, it has long been a thoroughly British trait to be able to ignore pointless nakedness, and I trust that the House will now be able to return to the issue that we are discussing.”
On Twitter, Extinction Rebellion, the protest group that organized the demonstration, 
Many on Twitter and in the news media highlighted the reaction of 
transcript
“I congratulate him on speaking in the way that he is, notwithstanding some other stuff that may be going on. In any event, would he agree with me, it’s really important tonight that everybody believes the people’s vote, absolutely votes for a people’s vote and doesn’t get distracted by anything else?” “Kyle” — “I’m very grateful for the intervention, and what a great sight she is, focusing in front of me much more so than the peripheral vision that came to my eyes elsewhere. The bottom line, the bottom line is —”
In the chamber, Mr. Kyle soldiered on, apparently struggling to keep his composure. With classic British understatement, the closest he got to acknowledging what was happening above was a reference to “the peripheral vision that was tempting my eyes elsewhere.”
“I congratulate him on speaking in the way that he is, notwithstanding some other stuff that may be going on,” Anna Soubry, a proponent of a second referendum, said when she took the floor. She added with a smile that it was important that everyone support Mr. Kyle’s motion, “and doesn’t get distracted by anything else.”
In a nation where “bottom” is a semi-naughty word and a 
For most of its history, the chamber had no physical barrier between lawmakers and observers. In 1978, a visitor threw horse manure over the railing.
Parliament installed the bulletproof glass in 2004, citing the threat of terrorism, but the change 
The incident on Monday will not help the reputations of 
The police struggled to clear the gallery, where at least one protester had been glued to the glass. They arrested 12 people on accusations of outraging public decency.
On the house floor, the debate — and the double-entendre — continued.
That was not enough for Extinction Rebellion, which organized the protest.
“It seems like that some of the MPs in the UK are more interested in making lewd innuendos than acting on global heating and ecological collapse,” the group 