
LONDON — Theresa May approached the lectern at No. 10 Downing Street late on Wednesday evening, at a perilous moment for the country.
With only nine days remaining until Britain is set to leave the European Union with no negotiated exit deal, Brussels had extended the flimsiest of lifelines, allowing a brief extension if Parliament would get behind her deal. But there was no sign that it would.
So what message would Mrs. May send to her country, angry and divided, teetering on the edge of a historic gamble?
Don’t blame me, blame Parliament.
“Two years on, M.P.s have been unable to agree on a way to agree on a way to implement the U.K.’s withdrawal,” she said, using the shorthand for members of Parliament. “As a result, we will now not leave on time with a deal on March 29,” she said. “This delay is a matter of great personal regret for me. You the public have had enough. You want this stage of the Brexit process to be over and done with. I agree — I am on your side.”
The House of Commons, she went on to say, was simply prevaricating.
“Do they want to leave the E.U. with a deal? Do they want to leave without a deal? Or do they not want to leave at all?” she asked. “So far, Parliament has done everything possible to avoid making a choice.”
Then she turned on her heel and stalked off.
It was an astonishing speech, first and foremost because Mrs. May desperately needs those lawmakers to vote for her plan next week. Her withdrawal agreement has been rejected twice: first on January 14 
This speech, to employ a bit of British understatement, did not help.
Over the hours that followed, lawmakers responded to the prime minister’s words with fury, saying she had intentionally stoked popular anger toward them. Supporters of remaining in the European Union, in particular, have felt vulnerable since 2016, when a far-right activist, agitated by the Brexit referendum, fatally shot a Labour lawmaker, Jo Cox.
“Democracy loses when a prime minister who has set herself against the House of Commons, then blames M.P.s for doing their job,” said a Conservative former minister, Sam Gyimah, who resigned from Mrs. May’s cabinet in November, saying he could not support her withdrawal agreement. On Twitter, he 
“This is particularly worrying given she knows M.P.s are receiving hate mail in their inboxes,” he said, in a Thursday morning interview with the television show “Good Morning Britain.” “Some M.P.s are receiving death threats.”
Lisa Nandy, a Labour lawmaker from the Brexit-voting constituency of Wigan, had been seen as one of the lawmakers Mrs. May might be able to get on board. Not anymore.
“There’s absolutely no chance she is going to win over M.P.s in sufficient numbers after that statement,” Ms. Nandy told ITV’s Robert Peston. “It was an attack on liberal democracy itself … I will not support a government that takes such a reckless, dangerous approach.”
Wes Streeting, a Labour lawmaker, called Mrs. May’s speech “incendiary and irresponsible,” adding: “If any harm comes to us she will have to accept her share of responsibility.”
The day seemed to exhaust any remaining stores of good will for Mrs. May in Parliament, where she has served since 1997. The saddest assessment — the one that sounded most like a eulogy for a political career — came 
“I have great sympathy for her,” he said. “I have known her for many years, and we have a personal friendship beyond and outside of this House, but I have to say that I could have wept — wept to see her reduced to these straits and wept to see the extent to which she was now simply zigzagging all over the place rather than standing up for what the national interest must be.”
There is, of course, a measure of truth in what Mrs. May said: Though few members of Parliament truly advocate a no-deal exit, members have proven unwilling to compromise, instead holding out for maximalist outcomes like a second referendum or the illusion of a renegotiated deal.
But it is also true that Mrs. May has sought to sideline Parliament throughout the process, holding fast to the channel of sovereignty granted her by the referendum.
She has put off their chance to vote on her deal until the 11th hour, in the hopes of foreclosing reasonable alternatives. And though it seems likely that a cross-party parliamentary majority exists for a soft Brexit, one that seeks to avoid economic damage by keeping Britain inside the customs union and close to the single market, she has made no effort to explore that outcome. Instead, she has chosen to ratchet up the risk of a no-deal exit.
A little less than an hour after Mrs. May strode away from the lectern, as fed-up and resentful as we have ever seen her, a Labour lawmaker suggested that the speech would lead to her ouster in a vote of no-confidence. “This is a confidence matter now,” wrote Steve Reed, who represents Croydon North. “Deal gone, May gone.”