
BRUSSELS — If the British prime minister, Theresa May, still hopes to get Parliament to accept her withdrawal agreement from the European Union before a looming deadline this month, her chances lie with her attorney general, Geoffrey Cox.
Mr. Cox, who favors Brexit, was in Brussels on Tuesday evening to try to win binding assurances from the European Union that 
If Mr. Cox proclaims his satisfaction that the backstop is not meant to be perpetual and that Brussels does not intend to “trap” Britain into a customs union, then maybe — just maybe — Mrs. May can secure a parliamentary majority before the withdrawal date of March 29. Mrs. May has promised a vote by next Tuesday.
If Mr. Cox says that he is not satisfied, then it is likely that a divided British cabinet and Parliament will vote to ask the other member states of the European Union to extend the cutoff date for at least three months, an extension likely to be agreed upon at a key summit meeting on March 21-22. Such a delay would avoid an unregulated exit by Britain with unhappy though unclear consequences for both sides.
The British foreign secretary, Jeremy Hunt, said that he saw positive developments on Tuesday, but that much work remained to be done.
“Our ask of the E.U. is an important ask,” Mr. Hunt told the BBC, “but it is one ask and it’s a simple one. We need substantive changes that will allow the attorney general to change his advice to the government that says that, at the moment, theoretically, we could be trapped in the backstop indefinitely.”
The problem is as intricate as it sounds, and may be as intractable. At the heart of the matter is 
Since the Irish Republic will remain inside the European Union’s single market and customs union, the land border with Northern Ireland, a part of Britain, will be part of the bloc’s border with the outside world.
Without a future trading deal that would eliminate the need for checks on that border, or some as yet not invented technical solution, the backstop would keep Britain tied to the European Union’s customs and standards, and prevent Britain from doing its own trading deals.
In January, the British Parliament 
But Brussels has been willing to try to negotiate some changes in language to a nonbinding political agreement that accompanies the withdrawal plan. It is also open to negotiating some form of codicil to the agreement that puts in stronger language that the backstop is not the preferred outcome, that it is meant to be temporary if ever used, and that forceful efforts would be made to eliminate it as soon as possible.
Mr. Cox prefers legally binding assurances of “good faith” that the backstop could cease to apply, “in whole or in part,” if other means to avoid a hard border can be found. That implies that the rest of Britain might diverge from the European Union on standards and rules while Northern Ireland remains in some sort of partial backstop arrangement.
Mrs. May, who originally considered such a solution, later insisted that the backstop had to apply to the entire United Kingdom. The Democratic Unionist Party, on whom her parliamentary majority rests, had refused to accept any arrangement that separated Northern Ireland in any way from the rest of Britain.
The question now is just how much padding Mr. Cox can wrap the backstop in to make it palatable, let alone legally applicable.
Mr. Cox is meeting together with the British Brexit secretary, Stephen Barclay, and the Europeans’ chief negotiator, Michel Barnier. If the talks go well, Mrs. May could go to Brussels herself later this week or early next week, before the second “meaningful vote” she has promised Parliament by next Tuesday.
Some analysts believe her chances of winning that vote are rising, but that will remain true only if Mr. Cox is satisfied and if the alternative is the cliff-edge Brexit no one wants.
British officials spoke carefully on Tuesday about Mr. Cox’s talks. “The attorney general is focused on securing changes to the backstop to ensure the E.U. cannot hold the U.K. in it indefinitely,” said a government spokesperson, who is not allowed to speak to the press by name. “Clearly, these negotiations are sensitive. We are at a critical point, and I won’t be getting into the precise details.”
A European diplomat briefed in advance about the Brussels position said that Mr. Barnier might accept new language if it could get the backing of a parliamentary majority, and that he believes Mrs. May is making a real effort to pass the deal by March 29.
But another senior Brussels official said that there was great wariness that Mrs. May could get a parliamentary majority for anything, and that fears of a no-deal Brexit did not hold the sort of weight with the European Union that Britain once thought.
Charles Grant, the director of the Center for European Reform, who follows the Brexit saga closely, said in a Twitter message that “I don’t think Cox will come back with anything substantially different — just fig leaves.”
But if the fig leaves are large enough, they may cover a multitude of gaps.