
LONDON — Prime Minister Theresa May narrowly survived a vote of no-confidence in Parliament on Wednesday, but that did little to quell the turmoil gripping the British government over her plan to leave the European Union, coming a day after 
The House of Commons voted 325 to 306 to reject the opposition motion of no confidence. A day earlier, it dealt Mrs. May a crushing defeat on her painstakingly negotiated agreement for Brexit, or the process of exiting the bloc.
Had it been successful, the no-confidence motion almost certainly would have ousted Mrs. May and probably have forced a general election, adding more layers of uncertainty in a country 
The head-snapping sequence of events leaves Mrs. May — the leader of an intractably divided party, with a split cabinet, no parliamentary majority and no clear path forward on Brexit — more politically wounded than ever, but somehow still standing.
transcript
“The ‘ayes’ to the right, 202. The ‘nos’ to the left, 432. So the ‘nos’ have it.” “The House has spoken, and the government will listen. It is clear that the House does not support this deal, but tonight’s vote tells us nothing about what it does support. Mr. Speaker, I want to end by offering two reassurances. The first is to those who fear that the government’s strategy is to run down the clock to the 29th of March. That is not our strategy. The second reassurance is to the British people who voted to leave the European Union in the referendum two and a half years ago. I became prime minister immediately after that referendum. I believe it’s my duty to deliver on their instruction, and I intend to do so.” “This is a catastrophic defeat for this government. After two years of failed negotiations, The House of Commons has delivered its verdict on her Brexit deal, and that verdict is absolutely decisive. Her governing principle of delay and denial has reached the end of the line. She cannot seriously believe that after two years of failure, she is capable of negotiating a good deal for the people of this country. The most important issue facing us is that the government has lost the confidence of this House and this country. I therefore, Mr. Speaker, inform you I have now tabled a motion of no confidence in this government, and I’m pleased — I’m pleased that motion will be debated tomorrow, so this House can give its verdict on the sheer incompetence of this government and pass that motion of no confidence in the government.”
Ordinarily, a prime minister would be expected to resign after suffering a big defeat on a signature bill. The vote of 432 to 202 against Mrs. May’s Brexit plan was by far the biggest loss for a government on a major issue in modern times.
But Brexit has rewritten the rules of British politics. Once again Mrs. May, the leader of the Conservative Party who has 
More than 100 lawmakers from her party who had opposed her Brexit bill voted to support her government.
So did legislators from the Democratic Unionist Party in Northern Ireland who also hated Mrs. May’s plan.
Her ability to soak up political punishment and survive is an acute frustration to Jeremy Corbyn, leader of the Labour Party. He began the no-confidence motion by reminding lawmakers that Tuesday’s vote was “the largest defeat in the history of our democracy,” adding that Mrs. May was leading a “zombie government.”
Ian Blackford, the leader of the Scottish National Party’s lawmakers at Westminster, accused the prime minister of presiding over a “political collapse,” adding that, in its pursuit of Brexit, the country was “on a path to self-destruction.”
Mrs. May’s rejected proposal would have given Britain’s government power over immigration from Europe, and would have kept the country in the bloc’s trade system while a long-term agreement was negotiated. With the no-confidence motion having failed, attention turned rapidly to whether Mrs. May has a credible Plan B for Brexit.
Next Monday, Mrs. May is required to return to Parliament with proposals on how she intends to proceed. Lawmakers then will have the opportunity to make new suggestions, and some might try to wrest control of the process.
One possibility would be to call a second referendum on whether to leave the bloc. In the 2016 referendum, 52 percent of British voters, or 17.4 million people, voted to exit.
Now that Mr. Corbyn has failed in his effort to secure a general election, he will be under pressure to endorse plans for a second referendum.
Nobody knows, really. But these are the likeliest scenarios.
A lifelong critic of the European Union, Mr. Corbyn has so far resisted such calls, but on Wednesday 71 Labour lawmakers gave their support to the campaign for a so-called “people’s vote.”
On Wednesday, Mrs. May invited opposition party leaders for talks, fueling speculation that she will ultimately have to compromise with Labour Party lawmakers who want to keep a permanent customs union with the European bloc. This step would likely cause even more dissension within her own party.
She also might try to postpone the March 29 deadline for Brexit. That date looms as analysts continue to warn that without a deal, the exit could be deeply damaging to Britain’s economy, leaving ports gridlocked and causing some supplies of food and medicines to dry up, and even plunging Britain into a recession.
Mr. Corbyn has called for Mrs. May to rule out the option of leaving the European Union without any agreement before he will hold talks with her. Last night, Mrs. May said she was “disappointed” in his position but said her door was open.
In a call with business leaders on Tuesday evening, the chancellor of the Exchequer, Philip Hammond, tried to reassure them that Britain could avoid a disorderly departure without any agreement, and raised the possibility of an extension to the negotiating period under Article 50 of the European Union’s treaty.
On Wednesday Mrs. May was careful not to rule out the prospect of extending the negotiating period, but noted that the bloc would agree on such a course only if “it was clear there was a plan that was moving toward an agreed deal.”
And while Mrs. May insisted that any Brexit plan must allow Britain to have its own trade policy, something that is impossible inside a customs union, the justice secretary, David Gauke, described that policy as “our starting point” and told Sky News, “I don’t think it’s a question of being boxed in.”
Any new ideas could be voted on next week, giving some indication of whether there is any sign of a growing consensus among lawmakers.
Many Conservative Party critics want to scrap an important part of Mrs. May’s agreement: the so-called “backstop” proposals to ensure goods flow freely across the Irish border after Brexit.
This would keep the whole of the United Kingdom tied to many European rules until agreement can be reached on a detailed trade deal that would remove the need for frontier checks. But the European Union insisted that the backstop cannot be scrapped.
European Union officials have been exasperated with the confusion in London, and so far are unwilling to reopen the legally binding part of the deal that Mrs. May negotiated. After her overwhelming defeat on Tuesday they see little point in offering concessions until there is a plan that could get through the British Parliament.
That was acknowledged by a former head of the British foreign office, Peter Ricketts, who wrote on Twitter that Mrs. May had “cashed all her chips” with European negotiators, adding that there “won’t be any more help coming now.”
President Emmanuel Macron of France predicted on Wednesday that the British would “ask for an extension to negotiate something else.”
European officials have said they could work with Mrs. May on something new, if she will agree to keeping closer ties to the bloc.
The first vice president of the European Commission, Frans Timmermans, quoted the British writer C.S. Lewis to suggest that there might yet be a fresh start for Brexit.
“You can’t go back and change the beginning,” he wrote on Twitter. “But you can start where you are and change the ending.”