
LONDON — The general election next month, Britain’s fourth national vote in as many years, will be a moment of reckoning for one of the world’s oldest democracies. The ideological divide between the two major parties now yawns wider than at any other point in living memory. 
For all of Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s exhortations to “Get Brexit Done” so that politics can return to normal, the truth is that regardless of the election’s outcome, there is no longer any mundane status quo to snap back to. The country today is febrile and fractured — precisely because an epic fight for tomorrow is underway. And it involves much more than Brexit.
After promising a relatively cautious return to traditional social democracy in its 2017 manifesto — nationalization of some key industries, provision of free university education, slightly higher taxes on the richest — the Labour Party has since been 
The Conservative Party, by contrast, has tacked hard to the right. Mr. Johnson’s cabinet includes Priti Patel, an advocate of tough law-and-order policies
The cumulative impact of a decade of austerity measures and of Labour shifting the political center of gravity leftward on economic policy means that Mr. Johnson has been forced to promise 
In the stark difference between the potential futures it could deliver, the 2019 election is truly a product of its time. This vote was forced into existence by the pandemonium that has ripped through governing institutions in recent years — 
A decade on from the crash, Britain is still mired in the longest period of wage stagnation 
The days when governments could promise perpetual economic growth, with a bit of skimming off the top for redistribution, are over. For many of those heading to polling stations on Dec. 12, this will be the first time in their adult lives that some form of centrist managerialism, offered by a party that could plausibly win power, is absent from the ballot.
Given that the next government must oversee some kind of resolution to the Brexit imbroglio, and will have the job of repairing both a dysfunctional democratic infrastructure and a tattered social fabric, the choices it makes will be far more consequential than those usually faced by incoming governments. Throw in the fact that the next prime minister will be in charge for half of the decade 
Against this backdrop, it is little wonder that far from being 
Nor is it surprising that mass polarization — part of a backlash against a discredited form of politics that attempted to elevate vast areas of public life above the fray of political antagonism — is on the rise. With each passing day of the campaign, support for smaller parties is 
The 
If British citizens have become more political, that’s in part because our politics has become more political, too. As a result, the electoral stabilizers are off. The stakes at play are monumental — prepare for a bumpy ride.
Jack Shenker (