
President Trump barreled into London like a bowling ball on his first trip to Britain as president last year, testing the special relationship by criticizing then-Prime Minister Theresa May’s approach to Brexit 
Mr. Trump is heading to London again next week, this time for a NATO summit marking the alliance’s 70th anniversary. Mrs. May is long gone from Downing Street. Mr. Johnson, still a favorite of the president, is prime minister and facing his own unpredictable election 
On Friday, senior administration officials said the visit will include one-on-one meetings with President Emmanuel Macron of France, who recently warned about 
Conspicuous for his absence from the list was Mr. Johnson. It is unusual for the president not to participate in a bilateral meeting with the leader of NATO’s host country. While the president’s schedule was still in flux, one official said the reason for not scheduling a meeting was that Mr. Trump was “very conscious of the fact that we do not interfere” in other country’s elections. 
The official also noted that Mr. Trump “likes 
It went unspoken by the White House that Mr. Johnson has been 
Whether Mr. Trump is able to heed the “stay away” signals Mr. Johnson has been waving in his face remains to be seen.
If he does, it would mark a big departure from his style on previous visits. Mr. Trump’s interview with The Sun defined his awkward trip last year to Britain, where he was forced to 
The White House press secretary, Stephanie Grisham, said on Friday there were currently “no plans” for a follow-up interview with The Sun, a tabloid owned by Rupert Murdoch.
But Mr. Trump has a history of making life 
During his two days in London next week, Mr. Trump is scheduled to participate in a working lunch with representatives of Estonia, Greece, Latvia, Poland, Romania, Lithuania, Bulgaria and Britain. He also has meetings scheduled with the prime minister of Denmark, 
“We have a good story to tell,” Jens Stoltenberg, the NATO secretary, said in an interview, noting that European allies have stepped up their financial commitments to the organization. Mr. Stoltenberg said he also expected the leaders to address China as a new challenge to NATO. 
“NATO has been focused on Soviet Union, Russia, then terrorism,” Mr. Stoltenberg said. “Now we also need to understand and address the consequences of shifting global balance of power and the rise of China.”
Senior administration officials also described the anniversary gathering as a “celebratory leaders meeting” and said that Mr. Trump was “greatly looking forward to it.”