
LONDON — On Thursday, Prime Minister Boris Johnson appeared to have accomplished what his long-suffering predecessor, Theresa May, never could. He rallied support among lawmakers for a plan to extricate Britain from the European Union and won praise from some of the same legislators who had tormented Mrs. May.
One Conservative Party lawmaker even seemed to compare Mr. Johnson to Moses, the biblical figure who descended from the mountain with new commandments.
But diplomats in Brussels greeted his Brexit plan frostily and pointed out a series of gaps and problems. It was an ominous sign that, after more than three fraught and exasperating years of debate in Parliament, Brexit was heading once again for a deadlock — this time in Brussels.
European Union leaders have been polite, at best, about Mr. Johnson’s proposal. On Thursday, Donald Tusk, president of the European Council, said he had told Mr. Johnson he was “open but still unconvinced.”
A less-diplomatic reaction came from an influential committee of the European Parliament, which declared the plan to be not “even remotely” acceptable. The European Parliament would have a veto over any deal.
“On the parliamentary side, it is plausible that Boris Johnson could scrape a majority together,” said Sam Lowe, a senior research fellow at the Center for European Reform, a research organization. “But on the European Union side, it is not a workable deal.”
The real question now, many analysts say, is who would get the blame for any negotiating failure over Mr. Johnson’s plan. That could be critical in swaying sentiment in a British general election, which everyone expects to happen soon.
If Mr. Johnson is ultimately forced to delay Brexit, he will want to blame others, analysts say, and the European Union does not want to be in the cross hairs. “No one wants to be the bad guy,” said Mr. Lowe.
Though Parliament has approved legislation to force Mr. Johnson to request a Brexit extension if he cannot get an agreement, it is also denying him a general election until he does so.
The same Parliament had foiled Mrs. May’s Brexit plan after she managed to reach a deal to get Britain out of the bloc. Three times she brought the plan before lawmakers to ram it through Parliament, and three times it failed.
This time, so far, Mr. Johnson seems headed in the opposite direction, getting support from Parliament but not the European Union.
Mr. Johnson has promised to leave the European Union on Oct. 31 “do or die.” His latest proposal aims to avert the possibility of a potentially disastrous withdrawal without any formal agreement. The big problem is how to avoid checks on goods at the politically sensitive border between Northern Ireland, which is part of the United Kingdom, and Ireland, which will stay in the European Union.
The prime minister’s plan aims to minimize customs checks, keep them away from the border and leave Northern Ireland obeying many of Europe’s product standards and regulations for goods, providing there is consent from the population.
On Thursday, Mr. Johnson softened his approach and was a symbol of reason itself in a performance in Parliament that was the mirror image of his last 
This time, he moderated his tone and promised to “strain every sinew” to get a Brexit deal, as some of the most vociferous Conservative hard-liners signaled their support for him.
Steve Baker, a prominent member of a group of pro-Brexit Conservative lawmakers nicknamed the “Spartans” because of their die-hard opposition to earlier compromise plans, said there was, at last, “a glimpse of a possibility of a tolerable deal.”
Mark Francois, another Conservative member of Parliament, said that the prime minister’s new proposal was based on “what many of us wanted all along,” including ideas that had been approved in a vote in Parliament.
That was significant because Mr. Francois is not just any Brexit supporter; he is the hard-liner’s hard-liner — someone who once publicly 
Significantly, Mr. Johnson had already received support from Northern Ireland’s Democratic Unionist Party, whose 10 lawmakers are allied with his Conservatives. Many analysts see the unionists as critical to assembling a majority in Parliament because, on issues related to Northern Ireland, they are influential among a larger number of Tory hard-liners who meet together as the European Research Group.
The opposition Labour Party lawmakers thought to be most likely to rebel and support Mr. Johnson to help him get a Brexit deal through did not speak up. But Frank Field, who recently left Labour to sit as an independent, was supportive.
Mr. Johnson appeared to have a small majority of lawmakers backing his latest proposals for resolving the Brexit crisis. But many see the question of a parliamentary majority as largely academic, including Anna Soubry, a former Conservative lawmaker who opposes Brexit.
She said that Mr. Johnson “thinks he has got the support of Parliament, but he can’t get any support from the E.U.”
Mr. Lowe said that Mr. Johnson was trapped in a Catch-22 that would be familiar to his predecessor, Mrs. May. To get an agreement from European leaders, he would have to make significant concessions, and that would cause his new supporters in Parliament to melt away.
“What we are all waiting for is a general election,” Mr. Lowe said.
As expected, the opposition leader, Jeremy Corbyn, said he would oppose Mr. Johnson’s plan, which he said was designed to open the way for an agreement on trade that would be an “America-first deal with President Trump.”
That prompted one Conservative Brexit supporter, Michael Tomlinson, to seemingly compare Mr. Johnson to Moses, saying that even if he had brought tablets down from the mountain, the opposition would have grumbled.