
Dyson, the British appliances company founded by a vocal supporter of Britain’s departure from the European Union, has decided to leave for Singapore. 
The company, which makes vacuum cleaners and hair dryers and has an electric car in the pipeline, is moving its headquarters from Malmesbury, in southwest England, to Singapore in response to demand for its products in Asia, the company said Tuesday. 
“An increasing majority of Dyson’s customers and all of our manufacturing operations are now in Asia,” the company said in its financial report. “This shift has been occurring for some time and will quicken as Dyson brings its 
The company insisted the relocation of the headquarters would involve only two job moves: Jorn Jensen, the chief financial officer, and Martin Bowen, the general counsel, will move to Singapore. Over all, the company said, it employs more than 12,000 people around the world, with more than 4,500 in Britain. 
A spokeswoman said the move was not a response to Britain’s plan to leave the European Union, known as Brexit, or conditions in Britain. “We remain committed to the U.K., but are growing quickly in Asia, too,” she said. 
Still, that did not stop people on Twitter from suggesting that the move was hypocritical and contradicted claims by James Dyson, the company’s founder and chairman, that the country would be better off outside the European Union. 
Singapore signed a free-trade agreement with the European Union in October, but Britain’s relationship with the bloc remains unclear, as it is still negotiating its departure. 
“Dyson’s decision to move his HQ to Singapore reflects his narrow business interest,” said Sam Gyimah, a Conservative member of Parliament, on Twitter. “Betrayal of the public who put their faith in him as a British business advocating a No Deal Brexit.” 
Mr. Dyson told 
“It was the right decision for Britain,” he said of the vote to leave. 
In a conversation with the BBC about Brexit last year, 
The company, which started by making vacuum cleaners, has become a ubiquitous presence across the country, with electric hand dryers adorning the walls of many public bathrooms and air purifiers and hair dryers in many homes. 
Mr. Dyson, 71, has lost none of his charm, lending his voice to TV commercials for the company’s products. He remains the face of the company and is now one of Britain’s richest people, as well as a knight. 