
A good art dealer finds a way to combine earnestness with polished savvy, and the success of the German-born gallerist 
Now representing more than 60 artists and estates, David Zwirner Gallery has grown significantly since its 
This month, timed to the yearly 
Mr. Zwirner has three galleries in New York — a 
But Mr. Zwirner,
Mr. Zwirner held forth about the perils of Brexit, the charms of Paris and how to get an artist to sign on to a gallery, in an interview that has been edited and condensed.
We’re not all over the place. That’s going to be it for a while. 
The motor of what a gallery does is to enable artists. Giving the artists a space to work and show in Paris, no one will argue with me or question that. Paris is one of the most beautiful cities in the world and it’s a cultural hub. I believe in galleries being in cities that are densely populated, have a rich cultural fabric and have a big audience for the visual arts.
Yes, I love the space, it has a history of great artists. In the ’90s, I 
People have been asking me, “Are you closing the London gallery?” Of course not. I love the London gallery. But with Brexit, opening a second gallery in Europe felt like a much more logical move. I’m European, and I love Europe. Brexit has been weighing on me.
What it will do to the business, we don’t know. But Brexit is madness. The fact 
Yes. The E.U. is one of the most important peace projects the world has ever known. It’s especially bad for a German of my generation, given our complicated history. I was born in ’64. Our generation has been coming to terms with what previous ones did. It felt like we were moving in the right direction.
We have a gallery in Hong Kong, and there are problems there, too. Though it’s too early to tell how it will play out. There are things that are problematic all over, but the art world has been somewhat shielded from them.
I suppose it’s a love-to-hate topic, but fairs are important. It’s impossible to imagine the London art scene without Frieze, or Paris without FIAC. And FIAC is a great example, because it’s actually exciting to show at the Grand Palais — it’s one of the world’s great spaces. But I think there will be consolidation of art fairs in the next few years.
The key is to really think about what you’re showing there. For Frieze New York, it’s always two-person shows. We’re trying a similar focus in Paris for FIAC this year, but with three artists:
 Nobody wants a big, big gallery. Artists want the reach and strength and power that a gallery can bring, but on a day-to-day basis they want intimacy, and they don’t want change all the time. They want kinship, and contact. So that’s a juggle: How do you keep a gallery small at heart, but with reach?
You always have to make yourself available to great talent; it’s part of being a gallery. They want to know you’re there not just to be opportunistic. They are used to talking to people whose hearts aren’t in it — all artists know right away when someone is like that. I guarantee it. Certainly great artists know. They pay much more attention than we think.