
LONDON — The British Army said on Wednesday that it was investigating a video showing soldiers using an image of Jeremy Corbyn, the opposition Labour Party leader, for target practice.
The cellphone footage was first posted on Snapchat, 
A caption on the video reads, “Happy with that.”
It was unclear when the video was made, but according to the BBC, the soldiers were from the 
Alistair Bunkall, a defense correspondent for Sky News, 
In response to the video, the army said in an emailed statement on Wednesday: “We are aware of a video circulating on social media. This behavior is totally unacceptable and falls well below the high standards the army expects. A full investigation has been launched.”
Mr. Corbyn has been a lightning rod for criticism in British politics since he was 
Conservative leaders such as Prime Minister Theresa May have 
The move was seen as a potential turning point for Brexit.
But Mrs. May’s decision led at least one Conservative minister, Nigel Adams, to quit the government on Wednesday. 
The video surfaced during a tense period in British politics. Right-wing protesters have hurled abuse at lawmakers in Parliament. The speaker of the House of Commons, John Bercow, said in January that he was especially worried about a “pattern” of abuse against female lawmakers and members of Parliament, the BBC reported.
Lawmakers across the political spectrum condemned the video, noting that as Parliament debates Brexit, its members have faced attacks.
“This behavior is alarming and unacceptable,” the Labour Party said in an emailed statement on Wednesday, which added that the party had confidence in the Ministry of Defense to “investigate and act on this incident.”
“We live in febrile and dangerous times, with politicians receiving death threats on a daily basis,” Stephen Kinnock, a Labour lawmaker and member of the Brexit select committee, 
Rory Stewart, a Conservative member of Parliament and minister for prisons, told the BBC on Wednesday, “I totally disagree with this, and I think these soldiers have made a very bad mistake.” Mr. Stewart, who briefly served in the armed forces, added of the soldiers, “They’re there to defend the country and the queen, not get involved in politics.”
In 2016, Jo Cox, a Labour lawmaker, was slain in northern England, a week before the Brexit referendum, shocking the nation. A
A year later, Rosie Cooper, also a Labour lawmaker, was the target of a 
“I was to be murdered to send a message to this place,” 
Mr. Bercow, the speaker, said Ms. Cooper had “displayed courage and fortitude of which many people and probably most of us can only dream.”
“By this sort of poisonous fascistic bile, we will not be cowed,” Mr. Bercow told Parliament. “And the sooner the purveyors of hate, of fascism, of Nazism, of a death cult realize that, the better.”