
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re focusing on today’s 
The British public trudges back to the polls today for the third general election in five years, with the country on the brink of its most radical transition since the end of World War II. 
At such a deeply divided moment, it’s perhaps fitting that the leaders of Britain’s two main political parties are polar opposites:
Neither is especially popular. One will prevail anyway. 
“Most people expect the Conservatives to win, but the question is whether they get a governing majority,” says Jim Yardley, our Europe editor. “If they do, it certainly seems like Remain is dead. The question we’ll sort out over the next year is what kind of Brexit we’ll have.”
And if the result falls short of either outcome, with, say, a stronger-than-expected showing by a smaller party? Things would get messy, and the country could crash out of the E.U. sans agreement.
The Conservative Party has made incessant vows to “get Brexit done” and bulldoze through three and a half years of political gridlock. Mr. Johnson maintains that Brexit would uncork a flood of pent-up investment, though government forecasts indicate that it will reduce growth.
The Labour Party, by contrast, has campaigned as the
Both messages have broad appeal, but it’s complicated. Many voters believe that the results of the 2016 referendum must be respected, even if they now think it would be better for Britain to remain in the European Union. And while they broadly see the N.H.S. as sacred, not everyone trusts Mr. Corbyn to take care of it.
The result is a broad reassessment of traditional political loyalties. A key question is how many voters will defect to the Liberal Democrats, a centrist party running on a promise to keep Britain in the E.U.
But he has campaigned with discipline, and his wit and bravado give him broad appeal across social classes. Crucially, that may 
Yet Mr. Corbyn’s leadership has been marred by 
In coverage of Britain’s divisive, hugely consequential election today, exit polls won’t be cited. There won’t be interviews with candidates or voters, or news shows debating the merits of the parties or the issues.
Only after the polls close at 10 p.m. local time will the floodgates open.
The muted coverage 
The laws emerged decades ago, at a time when TV and radio were very powerful, and before online journalism was a force. As licensed entities, broadcasters were required to act in the public interest, which was interpreted to include protecting voters from last-minute influences. 
The BBC and other British news organizations tend to follow the same rules online, as do foreign news organizations operating within the country.
At 10 p.m., it’s back to normal. 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time, with election results. 
— Mike