
Good morning.
We’re covering
Prime Minister Boris Johnson, having secured a 
Despite his success in Brussels, won at the cost of significant concessions, Mr. Johnson’s victory lap was short-lived, as obstacles to passing the agreement became clearer with little time left to persuade lawmakers to accept it. 
More broadly, the deal is at the extreme end of possible divorce settlements between Britain and the E.U., with no promise of alignment in commerce and trade, with the exception of Northern Ireland.
Vice President Mike Pence reached a deal with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey, accepting a Turkish presence in northern Syria in exchange for 
The arrangement, reached during a hastily arranged trip to Ankara, is remarkably deferential to Turkey, with the U.S. also dropping threatened sanctions. Turkey’s foreign minister credited Mr. Erdogan, saying that “we got what we wanted.”
It completes President Trump’s abrupt reversal of American policy in the Syrian conflict, which drew intense criticism from lawmakers in both U.S. parties. Whether the deal will work is unclear, because most of the main actors in northern Syria — the Kurdish leadership and the Russian and Syrian governments — were not at the negotiating table.
President Trump’s acting chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney, 
He told reporters that the Trump administration withheld nearly $400 million in military aid to pressure Ukraine to investigate what the president has long insisted was Kiev’s assistance to Democrats during the 2016 election. And he called the action “absolutely appropriate.”
Only a few years ago, France’s far right showed little interest in the environment. Jean-Marie Le Pen, founder of what became the National Rally party, denied human-driven climate change and dismissed ecology as the “new religion of the bobo,” or bohemian bourgeois.
But as the issue has risen to the top of European voters’ concerns, the 
“Scam or Not” also takes on myths about 
Don’t watch the tape.
That was the takeaway for moviegoers who saw the horror film “The Ring,” starring Naomi Watts and directed by Gore Verbinski, which 
A remake of the 1997 Japanese film “Ringu,” the movie made more than $249 million worldwide, a haul that encouraged more English-language remakes of Asian horror films — and two more American “Ring” movies.
The plot centers on a mysterious videotape that curses its viewers, leaving them with seven days to live. The cursed tape, and the film itself, focuses on a well.
The Japanese original, directed by Hideo Nakata, was based on one of Japan’s most famous ghost stories, which is set at 
Mr. Nakata’s 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Melina