
LONDON — Britain plans to welcome President Trump with the formality of 
Prime Minister Theresa May first 
The president and first lady accepted the invitation, the White House said in an emailed statement on Tuesday. During his visit, Mr. Trump will meet the queen and hold talks with the British prime minister, the statement added.
Mrs. May said in a statement on Tuesday that the state visit was “an opportunity to strengthen our already close relationship in areas such as trade, investment, security and defense, and to discuss how we can build on these ties in the years ahead.”
First mentioned very early in the Trump presidency, the idea of a state visit was designed to help solidify trans-Atlantic ties at a time when Britain’s departure from the European Union made the United States a potentially vital trade ally.
It was controversial not only because of Mr. Trump’s brand of politics but also because state visits are not usually offered at the beginning of an American presidency.
When Mr. Trump eventually traveled to Britain last year on a working visit, it had fewer of the ceremonial trappings than a state visit. However, Mr. Trump still proved to be a problematic guest for the prime minister, using an interview with the Sun newspaper to endorse Boris Johnson as a future leader, only a few days after he had resigned as foreign secretary over Mrs. May’s Brexit policy.
The announcement of the state visit comes at a time when Mrs. May faces a growing rebellion from her own lawmakers over her failure to take Britain out of the European Union on schedule on March 29.
Mrs. May hopes that, by the time of Mr. Trump’s visit, Parliament will have approved her plan for Brexit, and Britain will be on course to leave the bloc, perhaps at the end of June. She has said that sometime after that she would step aside for a new leader.
But with no sign that her Brexit plan will be approved soon by Parliament, the state visit could come at a time of significant political tension over Mrs. May’s leadership. Because of the latest delay to Brexit, Britain is likely to hold elections to the European Parliament on May 23. If that contest goes ahead as expected, experts predict that the results are likely to be bad for Mrs. May’s Conservatives, and to fuel discontent within her party.
Until Britain leaves the European Union, it will not be able to start formal negotiations on any new trade agreement with the United States, even if Mr. Trump offers to help facilitate one.
On June 5, the president will take part in events in Portsmouth, on the south coast of England, for the 75th anniversary of 
A formal invitation for a state visit, issued by the monarch on the advice of the government, is among the heaviest tools in Britain’s diplomatic arsenal. Before Mr. Trump, 
Mr. Trump mostly avoided London on his last visit, when protesters made it clear that he would not be welcome in the capital.
A former head of the British Navy, Lord West, said that, considering the occasion, President Trump should be allowed to address Parliament.
“Many Americans gave their lives on D-Day and beyond, and it would be disgraceful not to allow President Trump to speak,” he 
Mayor Sadiq Khan of London, who has been 
In 2017, 
At that time, Mr. Khan said the president’s “ban on people from seven Muslim-majority countries” and his decision to block refugees from entering the United States meant he should not be afforded a state visit.
“In those circumstances, we shouldn’t be rolling out the red carpet,” Mr. Khan said.