
Good morning.
We’re covering an attempt to 
Prime Minister Boris Johnson challenged British lawmakers to approve 
The proposal would require the backing of two-thirds of lawmakers, meaning he needs the support of the opposition Labour Party, which has reacted coolly to the prospect of a general election without first taking the option of a no-deal Brexit off the table. But that could happen as soon as today, if the E.U. agrees to Mr. Johnson’s request to extend the Brexit deadline to Jan. 31. 
Polls show Mr. Johnson’s Conservative Party with a comfortable lead, but it is difficult to predict how votes will translate into seats in Britain’s winner-take-all electoral system.
There has been a wave of arrests — of 
But amid growing unrest, often exacerbated by the crackdowns, it is unclear how morale will improve. 
The freeze on nearly $400 million in military aid to Ukraine was felt on the front lines. President Trump has been accused of withholding the funding as part of a politically motivated pressure campaign against the Ukrainian government, a central piece of the impeachment investigation. 
But in the trenches of Ukraine’s war with Russian-backed separatists, which has left some 13,000 people dead, soldiers said the freeze 
The people found in a refrigerated truck trailer near London on Wednesday are 
Eight of the dead are women and 31 are men, the police said. Each body will undergo a full coroner’s examination to identify the victim and establish the cause of death. The driver of the truck, identified as Morris Robinson, has been arrested on suspicion of murder.
Under the leadership of Mary-Kay Wilmers, above, 
Its circulation has risen consistently since 1985, and its strategy involves offering what readers are said not to be interested in anymore — like articles with word counts in the tens of thousands and ideas too quirky for other publications. “She has that archeditor’s ability to remind her writers that the world is slightly funny,” said one contributor to the review. 
Our 
The 
Movie trailers have come a long way since their introduction in the 1910s. Back then, according to a 
For decades after, most trailers were produced by the same company — the National Screen Service — giving them a fairly uniform style. But in the 1960s, auteurs like Alfred Hitchcock and Stanley Kubrick began to produce their own trailers, applying their unique artistic sensibilities to the promotional clips.
In the modern era, trailers have become known for the deep-voiced narration made popular by 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Melina