
Good morning.
We’re covering the winding road to 
Brexit talks 
Little time remains to strike a deal that can be voted on when European heads of state arrive in Brussels today, and then be approved by Britain’s Parliament in a special session on Saturday — if the country is to leave the bloc by Oct. 31, as Mr. Johnson insists will happen. 
But there were mixed signals, with the leader of Northern Ireland’s Democratic Unionist Party saying there was much work to be done. (Mr. Johnson needs the party’s support to get a deal through Parliament.) Mr. Johnson himself compared the negotiations to climbing Mount Everest, saying the peak was still
Democratic leaders walked out of a White House meeting about the worsening situation in Syria on Wednesday, after President Trump repeatedly insulted House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. 
Separately, The Times obtained a letter from last week in which 
Mr. Trump, for his part, essentially washed his hands of the Turkish assault on America’s Kurdish allies there, saying, “That has nothing to do with us. The Kurds know how to fight, and, as I said, they’re not angels, they’re not angels.”
Closed-door testimony to House investigators this week has a theme: President Trump went his own way on Ukraine, whose leaders he urged to investigate his Democratic rivals.
Today, Michael McKinley, a former senior adviser to Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, testified that he quit because 
And we learned that Fiona Hill, a former top White House foreign policy adviser, testified on Monday that she saw Gordon Sondland — a Trump donor who was named ambassador to the European Union — 
Mr. Sondland, who played a role in the administration’s dealings with Ukraine, is scheduled to meet with impeachment investigators today.
President Rodrigo Duterte refers to journalists as “spies,” “vultures” and “lowlifes.” His wish, he has said, is to “kill journalism” in the Philippines. Maria Ressa, above, the editor of the independent news site Rappler, has incurred much of the president’s wrath, becoming the target of almost a dozen civil and criminal cases in the past year and a half. 
And we have five tips for 
The Korean Central News Agency is North Korea’s media producer, controller and disseminator. 
One of its main roles is keeping the country’s 25 million people informed about exactly 
It portrays the North as powerful, well regarded and prosperous, while insulting and threatening perceived enemies in sometimes bizarre wording involving boiled pumpkins
And it showcases no end of heroic images of the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, 
KCNA was founded in 
The Soviet propaganda machine, well practiced at lionizing Joseph Stalin, 
KCNA followed the model and has been instrumental in creating 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Melina