
Good morning.
We’re covering the 
The Democratic-controlled House of Representatives 
No House Republicans voted with the Democrats, and it’s highly unlikely that the Republican-controlled Senate will decide to remove Mr. Trump from office. Instead, it is likely to acquit him of the two charges he faces: abuse of power and obstruction of Congress.
Regardless, Mr. Trump is now only the third American president in history to be impeached, and his Senate trial will aggravate the political and cultural fault lines that his divisive presidency has brought into dramatic relief.
There is bound to be plenty of royal pomp and stagecraft in London today when Queen Elizabeth II gives a speech laying out Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s agenda for next year. 
Today’s speech comes a week after the Conservative Party won a landslide victory in a general election, and a day before Parliament begins debating legislation that would enable Britain to leave the European Union on Jan. 31 — Mr. Johnson’s central campaign promise.
Here are two issues that analysts are watching closely.
There’s no doubt that Brexit will happen next month, but a key question concerns the timing of Britain’s post-Brexit transition. Mr. Johnson’s government has set a hard deadline of December 2020 for reaching a trade deal with the European Union. But Brussels, which 
Ursula von der Leyen, the president of the European Commission, 
Mr. Johnson, who has said that Britain’s revered National Health Service is his top domestic priority, is expected to promote a bill that would commit the government to spend more on it than his Conservative predecessors did. But the N.H.S. has deteriorated under the party’s watch, and 
In a sign of strains on the health service, 15,000 nurses 
France, the United States and other countries use invasive surveillance techniques to track terrorists or drug lords. China wants to use similar tools to keep tabs on anyone walking down the street. 
Our latest story on China’s expanding surveillance state draws on police databases to show how the authorities use phone scanners, facial-recognition cameras and other gadgets 
Why did the transition from preschool to kindergarten turn a sweet 5-year-old into a screaming bundle of tears? 
In 
Kim Jong-un has sent repeated signals that he will abandon diplomacy unless Washington meets his 
Over the last few months, he has twice done something to publicize his resolve, visiting a mountain sacred to his people as their mythical birthplace. That’s Mount Baekdu, a 9,029-foot peak near the Chinese border.
In 2013, he traveled there two weeks before 
He returned in 2017, shortly after 
This October, North Korean state media showed Mr. Kim 
He apparently returned a few weeks later, on a horse that galloped “through knee-high virgin snow.” Within days, North Korea had 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time. 
— Mike