
LONDON — 
Britain’s ruling Conservative Party has spent this month whittling leadership candidates down from an extraordinary 10 — these times need heroes — to Boris Johnson and Jeremy Hunt.
Mr. Johnson is the British Donald Trump. He has the hair, the bombast and the disregard for the truth. He’s a brand. Mr. Hunt is foreign secretary and an affable blank. But never mind him. He is less fun than Mr. Johnson. He has never dangled from a zip wire waving union flags, as Mr. Johnson has.
President Trump has already endorsed Mr. Johnson to succeed Prime Minister Theresa May when she steps down next month. “I think he would be excellent,” Mr. Trump told The Sun newspaper earlier this month. The Conservative Party has not quite committed, not yet. The two finalists will spend the next month debating each other around the country, and the party membership will then choose between them. The Conservatives haven’t done anything this interesting since the last time they tore themselves apart over Europe, about ten minutes ago.
If you have not been following this race closely, and who could blame you, let me elaborate: It was a field of candidates that distinguished itself mostly through gaffes.
First to depart was Esther McVey, one of only two female candidates, after 
Then Andrea Leadsom and Mark Harper, functional nonentities, were eliminated. Matt Hancock, who once returned from an environmental conference in a private plane, withdrew. Then we lost Dominic Raab, a former Brexit secretary (there are many) who 
By Tuesday, five remained.
The campaign maverick was Rory Stewart. He knows how to use social media and has filmed himself walking around Britain actually speaking to people. The campaign Thatcherite was Sajid Javid, the home secretary, who spent some of the campaign wondering if he should change his Twitter handle to @TheSaj.
Then there was Michael Gove, the environment secretary, who admitted to taking cocaine at a party 20 years ago. He is an improbable cocaine user — he is an intellectual scuppered by goggly eyes — but this is an improbable campaign: men seething with ambition fighting for a cup poisoned by Brexit. His admission incited a flurry of drug confessions, as candidates tried to prove they would be more interesting than Theresa May, who has said that she worst thing she ever did was to run through a wheat field near Oxford. Mr. Hunt admitted to taking cannabis while traveling through India. Mr. Stewart bested this easily: He smoked opium at a wedding in Iran.
But they are all swallows around the juggernaut of Mr. Johnson, who Tories
Newly separated from his second wife, Mr. Johnson’s campaign strategy has been to hide in a cupboard and wait for it to be over. I do not think Winston Churchill, his hero, would have done this. 
Mr. Johnson did not come to be questioned by political journalists with the other candidates at a news conference and he did not come to the first television debate. He does not want the press to ask him how many children he has — is it four, five, six? More than six? — or other questions to which he may not know the answer. Mr. Johnson is a gaffe machine. He spent 20 years writing semi-racist polemics for right-wing publications and two terms as mayor of London taking credit for others’ achievements. He does not give details. He gives hope. In today’s Britain you cannot have both details and hope.
The producers of the first debate represented him with an empty lectern. Afterward, commentators said the empty lectern won easily. It showed promise. Mr. Johnson’s cupboard strategy was vindicated.
He was at the second debate, on the BBC, sitting awkwardly on a bar stool. The moderator, alternately vicious and wheedling, forgot to tell the candidates not to interrupt each other. They dressed like schoolboys in mourning, their socks gleaming, and shouted over one another while trying to demonstrate empathy.
Considering that, Mr. Javid apart, they are all rich white men, it was weird. So-called normal people asked questions by video. The worst moment for Mr. Johnson, who once compared Muslim women in 
Mr. Patel asked whether words have consequences. He would have done better to ask if they had meaning at all. All of the candidates — with the exception of Mr. Stewart, only recently a cabinet minister — repudiated the policies of the government of which they are members. They promised gold for social care, for education, for fountains of wine.
Mr. Gove said that he, adopted by a fish merchant as a baby, was the only normal person at the debate. Mr. Stewart showed his contempt for the proceedings physically. He spread his legs which had, in another life, walked across Afghanistan. He closed his eyes. He took his tie off. Nonconservatives like Mr. Stewart because he is different, but I see the light of fanaticism in his eyes. Perhaps that is why he closed them.
Mr. Johnson was eventually pronounced the winner, merely by surviving. That is, he didn’t look into the camera, blow a raspberry and fall over. I am not sure it would hurt him if he did. The BBC was criticized for the chaotic format. Our politics are so corrupted, we cannot even have a proper fight. 
Mr. Stewart was eliminated on Wednesday. On Thursday, it was the turn of Mr. Javid and Mr. Gove
How did we come to this? How did a polemicist — Mr. Johnson is not a journalist, he lies too much — who made his name inventing falsehoods about the European Union and its policies on bananas become the man to deliver Brexit? It is a joke gone awry? Or have we learned the worst lessons of mass media? All that is necessary is a brand. And Mr. Johnson, I am ashamed to note, has the best hair of his life.
Now he and Mr. Hunt go to the Tory membership: to the shires, the golf clubs, the lanes with dappled sunlight near the M25 motorway. The next prime minister will be elected by less than 0.5 percent of the electorate.
The results of the vote will be announced on July 22; the prize is Mr. Johnson’s to lose. At least he has proved himself capable of doing that. If the Brexit crisis was born from a deficit of democracy, that deficit remains. Still, we have the hair.
Tanya Gold (