
LONDON — Flying the giant Trump baby balloon once again, Britons protesting President Trump’s state visit tried to bring central London to a standstill on Tuesday with demonstrations that they hoped would draw large crowds throughout the day.
But the turnout fell below expectations and the volume of the protests during Mr. Trump’s first visit in July, suggesting that the passions that 
Though not, perhaps, among those who showed up on Tuesday.
“Stop Racism, Stop Trump,” one placard read.
“Climate change is real, your tan is not,” read another.
Many wore caps that mocked the president’s 2016 campaign slogan, “Make America Great Again.” Theirs read: “Make America Great Again. Impeach Me.”
Ruby Lawson, a reflexologist, expressed disgust that her country would put on such 
“It is so embarrassing that our government has invited this fascist buffoon back to our country and is giving him the royal treatment, pulling out the red carpet and wining and dining him with our tax money,” she said. “We want to show the world and Trump that this is not O.K., and Trump is not welcome.”
transcript
“It’s our democratic right to protest. And in fact, many would say our duty, when again, our closest ally is espousing politics, which is fundamentally damaging and divisive to many in his country, but also over here.” Crowd: “Three, two, one.” [cheering]
This year, the protesters unveiled a new prop: A huge statue of the president sitting on a golden toilet while posting messages on Twitter. The device, which has been named Dump Trump, has an audio function that produces flatulent sounds and repeats some of the president’s sayings, including “I am a very stable genius,” and “you are fake news.”
Some protesters also used the rally to criticize the Conservative British government and oppose Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union, holding placards that read, “Tories Out. General Election Now” and “Stop Brexit.”
With Prime Minister Theresa May set to step down on Friday, her party will be thrust into a leadership contest, which could create further turmoil in the government and hinder its attempts to agree on a Brexit deal with the European Union.
“The Tories are the British equivalent to Trump,” said Melissa Merlan, as she marched to Whitehall with her 5-year-old daughter. “If we allow them to lead us into Brexit without a deal, then the U.K. is going to unravel further and start to look a lot like Trump’s America.”
When asked why the turnout was much lower than the demonstration held during Mr. Trump’s last visit, some protesters blamed the weather — a steady rain — while others said people were suffering from politics fatigue.
“We’ve been going around and around in circles over Brexit for more than two years now. People are tired and fed up,” said April Martin, Ms. Merlan’s sister and an activist for the Stop Trump campaign. “People just want to get on with their lives.”
For the protests on Tuesday, buses had delivered demonstrators to London from at least 15 other British cities. And many Britons have registered their dissatisfaction with Mr. Trump in other venues.
To avoid the protests during his last visit, Mr. Trump largely stayed away from London. But this year, Queen Elizabeth II welcomed the president for 
The main protest Tuesday, named Together Against Trump, began at Trafalgar Square. Demonstrators then marched toward the prime minister’s residence, at 10 Downing Street, where the president met with Mrs. May and held a news conference.
Jeremy Corbyn, the leader of the opposition Labour Party, attended the main protest and called Mr. Trump’s visit “an opportunity to stand in solidarity with those he’s attacked in America, around the world and in our own country.”
He hailed the crowds that gathered outside Downing Street as a “wonderful mosaic of diversity and inclusion.” Mr. Corbyn had declined to attend the state banquet with Mr. Trump on Monday night; on Tuesday his party confirmed that the president had rejected Mr. Corbyn’s request to meet.
“I am not refusing to meet anybody — I want to be able to have that dialogue to bring about the better and more peaceful world that we all want to live in,” Mr. Corbyn said.
London’s mayor, Sadiq Khan, was more forceful in denouncing Mr. Trump, with whom he has a long-running feud. In 
Some demonstrators had threatened to throw milkshakes at the president, part of a recent 
In a statement, the Metropolitan Police of London said that “whilst the Met has a responsibility to ensure the right to peaceful protest, this needs to be balanced with the complex requirements of this policing plan.”
Organizers of the demonstrations said the main themes of the protest were Mr. Trump’s politics, climate change and the rights of migrants, women, L.G.B.T. people and unions.
“Donald Trump is an open racist and sexist, a volatile and dangerous character who seems set on taking the West into further wars,” said Maz Saleem, an activist and member of the Stand Up to Trump protest group.
Smaller protests were organized outside Buckingham Palace to coincide with the state banquet on Monday, and another demonstration has been organized for Wednesday in the southern city of Portsmouth, where Mr. Trump is scheduled to attend events commemorating the 75th anniversary of D-Day.