
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering a test to 
The British government is looking at another disappointing week as it gets ready to hold a second parliamentary vote on a general election today, on the same day a bill averting a no-deal Brexit is set to become law. 
Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s backup plan — holding a mid-October election — is looking like a nonstarter after opposition parties came together on Friday to say they would not support it. It is another test of his scorched-earth, “come what may” Brexit philosophy, and a blow to 
President Trump’s halting of Afghan peace talks — and the possibility that the U.S. could withdraw troops even without an agreement — 
By blowing up a diplomatic process that appeared to be inching forward, despite continued attacks by both sides, it was unclear where Mr. Trump would go from here.
Protesters appeared unsatisfied by the withdrawal of the contentious extradition bill that initially pulled them out into the streets. 
Since Friday night, they have held singing sit-ins in malls and demonstrated at rail stations, saying they will stop only if Hong Kong’s government, led by Carrie Lam, agrees to meet their demands for greater democratic representation. 
On Sunday, they 
For three years, the European Union has been paying other countries to house and screen asylum seekers. But the network is overwhelmed. 
The bloc is now preparing to finish another such deal, 
Covert influence campaigns have become a favored tool of leaders in countries like China and Russia, where manipulation of social media complements strong-arm tactics on the streets.
But in the Middle East in particular, the campaigns are being used to 
And a new study suggests that 
Britain is heaving over Brexit, and the pound is bouncing around near its historic low.
To make matters worse, 
In the 1800s, a German scientist, 
The salty dark paste is an acquired taste, often spread on buttered toast. 
Its popularity was confirmed in 2016, when there was 
The new concerns over Marmite arose after Unilever’s chief executive said in June that the company would 
Marmite lovers now have more than Brexit on their minds. 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Melina