
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering 
Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s incessant campaign pledge to finally take Britain out of the European Union has
Here are 
Based on official results, the BBC projected that the Conservatives would win about 365 seats in the House of Commons, giving them a 74-seat majority. That should enable Mr. Johnson to lead Britain through Brexit in January, probably with an orderly deal as opposed to the crash-out that many had feared. 
In a country that has “lurched from crisis to crisis” since voters narrowly chose Brexit in a 2016 referendum, 
Earlier today, Mr. Corbyn told reporters that he would not lead the party in “any future general election campaign.” But he vowed to stay on as leader for the time being to ensure a process “of reflection on this result and on the policies that the party will take going forward.”
The pro-independence Scottish National Party was projected to exceed expectations by winning 55 of Scotland’s 59 seats at Westminster, a 20-seat gain that puts the party in a position of almost total dominance in Scottish politics. 
One result may be further calls for another vote on Scottish independence — and rising tensions between London and Edinburgh.
President Trump is 
When Mr. Trump hinted at the agreement 
Founded during World War II, the U.S. Office of Strategic Services assembled a crack team of designers and other artists to create graphics, maps, slides and films about the war effort. Its talent pool, which included Walt Disney, 
Among other things, a team at the agency — the direct precursor to the Central Intelligence Agency — honed the concept of a “situation room,” above, where key decisions about war and peace are still made at the White House. The team was led by Eero Saarinen, a prolific Finnish-American architect.
The horror novelist Stephen King is a triskie. He’s also a friggatriskaidekaphobe. Or, if you prefer, a paraskavedekatriaphobe.
While a triskie — a triskaidekaphobe, that is — is creeped out by the number 13, the other two are terrified of Friday the 13ths. Like today.
“It’s neurotic, sure. But it’s also … safer,” 
Other friggatriskies:
And the Austrian-American composer 
That’s it for this briefing. Have a good weekend. 
— Mike