
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering the 
The Turkish lira dipped further on Monday, after President Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s abrupt firing of the chief of the country’s central bank. 
Inflation and joblessness are alarmingly high, and growth has been minimal. Political uncertainty is spreading.
As Turkey 
President Trump 
Mr. Trump broadened his criticism to include Prime Minister Theresa May, whom he accused of botching Britain’s negotiations to leave the European Union.
“What a mess she and her representatives have created,” Mr. Trump said on Twitter. “I told her how it should be done, but she decided to go another way.”
Mr. Hunt, the foreign secretary, and Mr. Johnson, the former foreign secretary and mayor of London, 
As the two men vie for the votes of about 160,000 Conservative Party members, who will choose a new leader next month, their differences in temperament and how they approach Brexit are increasingly striking.
Mr. Johnson has vowed that Brexit will take place with or without a deal on Oct. 31. Mr. Hunt, who was once a Remainer, recently said he would decide at the end of September whether Brexit talks were going anywhere. Some critics doubt his commitment to a Brexit at all costs; others compare him to Mrs. May. 
According to opinion surveys, Tory members are drawn to Mr. Johnson. 
Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the leader of the New Democracy party, has been underestimated by many in Greece. But his ascent to become the country’s prime minister is 
Thomas Jefferson hailed him as the “purest son of liberty I have ever known.” New York named a bridge after him. Poland reveres him as the leader of a revolt in the late 18th century. 
And now, 
Also: Do you need 
President Trump welcomes the leader of Qatar to the White House today, with plenty to discuss, including U.S. access to a pivotal air base and Qatar’s 
Qatar also has access to huge natural gas reserves. That wasn’t always a good thing: Natural gas, 
The fortunes of Qatar improved sharply thanks to technology that liquefies natural gas, shrinking its volume, so specially outfitted freighters can make cost-effective deliveries across great distances. 
Qatar now exports more liquefied natural gas than any other country, and a boom in global demand has made it very, very rich.
The U.S., Australia and Russia are also major suppliers, but natural gas is not necessarily a ticket to wealth: 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Melina