
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning,
We start today with an exploration of what 
Our reporter took a 10-day journey through the European Union before the Continent votes from Thursday through Sunday for the European Parliament — an election that has become a battle for the soul of Europe.
Her question: 
She found that hope competed with disillusionment. The balance almost invariably depended on opportunity — whether the idea of Europe had opened doors to prosperity, or had allowed in unwanted threats in the form of new states, new values or new people.
Still, almost no one wanted their country to leave the E.U., even if almost no one was happy with how it was working.
Fighting growing calls for her to stand aside quickly, Mrs. May suffered a significant blow Wednesday when a 
The cabinet member, Andrea Leadsom, left her position as leader of the House of Commons at the end of a day of swirling rumors about a cabinet coup against Mrs. May. There is a ferocious backlash among Conservative lawmakers against her latest plan to resolve the Brexit crisis.
Ms. Leadsom’s letter referenced Mrs. May’s announcement the previous day of a new Brexit plan and the option for lawmakers to vote on a second referendum.
Ms. Leadsom is likely to be a candidate again when the contest to succeed Mrs. May formally begins.
For three years, Donald Trump has treated the details of his personal and business finances as a closely guarded secret.
On Wednesday, those secrets 
A federal judge in Manhattan ruled against a request from President Trump to block his longtime lender, Deutsche Bank, from complying with congressional subpoenas seeking his detailed financial records. In Albany, New York lawmakers approved a bill that would allow Congress to obtain Mr. Trump’s state tax returns. Two days ago, another judge ruled against Mr. Trump’s bid to quash another congressional subpoena.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s party held a comfortable lead in the country’s parliamentary elections, according to preliminary results released today. 
If the trend continues, Mr. Modi’s Bharatiya Janata Party would win an outright majority and wouldn’t need other coalition partners, a far more dominating performance than many analysts had thought possible a few months ago, when Mr. Modi appeared to be struggling on economic issues.
A fear of migrants, their customs — and sometimes, their produce — has taken root in Italy, fueling the rise of populism and the ascent of Matteo Salvini, the tough interior minister and far-right leader of the anti-migrant League party.
Our writer went to a Palermo market where the 
And we have some tips on being a supportive partner 
Observers of Ramadan around the world participate in a variety of traditions. One that spans cultures and regions is the way the daily fast is broken: with a date.
The date has been a flourishing crop in the Middle East for thousands of years. It appears at least 20 times in the Quran and hadith, a collection of sayings and traditions attributed to the Prophet Muhammad and other early Muslims. Muhammad even suggested starting each day by eating 
There’s also a nutritional component. After a long day without any water or food — sometimes up to 
Nazima Qureshi, a nutritionist who observes Ramadan, said that the date offers electrolytes, including potassium (more than in a banana), magnesium and calcium, as well as fiber, which is filling.
It also has a low glycemic index, making it a great natural sweetener for desserts like 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Melina