
Good morning. 
Parliament voted 
Many lawmakers from her own party, who just a day earlier opposed her plan, leapt to her defense and voted to support her government, demonstrating the complex politics around Brexit and Mrs. May’s 
Speaker Nancy Pelosi asked President Trump to reschedule the annual speech — typically an occasion for the president to make a case for his policy agenda — citing 
A day after Shabab militants attacked a hotel and shopping complex in Nairobi with guns and bombs, 
President Uhuru Kenyatta said in a speech to the nation that 700 civilians had been evacuated during the response to the assault. Distraught relatives were left to scramble for more information at morgues and hospitals, as the Red Cross set up teams to help deal with the casualties and to provide counseling. An American and a Briton were among the dead. 
On a typical summer day, high above the city of Almaty in Kazakhstan, rivulets of melted ice stream down the edge of 
Melting is a normal process in the constant evolution of glaciers. But in a warming climate, snow in winter can’t make up the difference, resulting in a net loss of ice.
Last year, scientists found that the Tuyuksu glacier was melting at a mad pace — parts of it were three feet thinner than they were the year before. The glacier is getting shorter, too: In six decades, it has retreated more than half a mile.
The Colorado Cowboy Poetry Gathering 
It’s followed by the 35th 
So what defines cowboy poetry?
“If it talks about agriculture or the Western way of life, horses, cattle — it counts,” said Bob Welch, a former editor of American Cowboy magazine.
He added: “If the author has a mustache, that certainly helps.”
(
The tradition dates to cattle-drive days after the Civil War, when cowhands passed time inventing ballads about their work.
It entered the modern era through people like 
“I would say the people who participate, 90 percent of them have some connection to livestock,” Mr. Black said.
That wouldn’t surprise Mr. Welch: “Since the beginning,” he said, “cowboys have been romantics.”