
Good morning.
General elections will 
The world’s largest democratic exercise, with some 900 million eligible voters, is widely seen as a referendum on the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is running for a second five-year term.
His popularity may be dented by a series of mismanaged policies and an emboldened nationalist movement associated with his Bharatiya Janata Party.
On Tuesday, British lawmakers are scheduled to 
Many expect Parliament to reject her plan again, leaving Britain, in all likelihood, pleading with the E.U. for an extension of the March 29 deadline for the divorce.
Even if lawmakers do vote for her plan, questions about Britain’s long-term trade relationship with the E.U. would still need to be negotiated, a process that could take several more years.
Over the weekend, Chinese officials raised potential solutions to major roadblocks in trade talks with the U.S., possibly edging the world’s two largest economies closer to a deal.
First,
Beijing also suggested that both sides had reached an understanding to 
As the terrorist group’s territory in Syria and Iraq
In January, the group claimed a bombing at a cathedral that killed 23 people on the island of Jolo. The Philippine military responded with airstrikes and stationed 10,000 soldiers there.
“ISIS is the most complicated, evolving problem for the Philippines today, and we should not pretend that it doesn’t exist because we don’t want it to exist,” said the chairman of the Philippine Institute for Peace, Violence and Terrorism Research.
In 2016, the Islamic State began circulating messages online to encourage those militants to join under its black flag.
The Times published 
“Say it with me children: 
Mr. Raab, 84, retired from The Times in 2000, after decades of reporting on the Mafia. His signature 2005 book, “
Your Back Story writer gave Sel a call. In addition to projects for the History Channel, he’s writing a pilot for a 10-part series based on “Five Families” and working with Netflix on a series about the 1986 Mafia Commission trial.
Sadly, we didn’t have a photo of him at hand.
“I was always very careful about showing my face,” he said, his humor as unchanged as his energy. “The point is, very simply, that there was always a gentlemen’s agreement that if you wrote honestly about organized crime figures, they wouldn’t victimize you, but there are always crackpots.
“And I wasn’t that good-looking to begin with.”