
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering the 
The Conservative Party today will announce its 
The pound has 
Mr. Johnson would also have to face another complication: Jo Swinson, a 39-year-old Scottish lawmaker, who on Monday 
Mr. Trump met with Prime Minister Imran Khan in the Oval Office, where the president offered improved relations and trade between the two nations in exchange for 
The president has repeatedly discussed his goals to bring American forces home from Afghanistan and end the nearly 18-year war, but relations between Pakistan’s intelligence service and extremists have thwarted hopes of a peaceful regional solution. 
Over the past two years, the war-torn nation has emerged as a central battleground for 
The United Arab Emirates and Qatar are each providing weapons or military training to favored factions, exchanging allegations about bribing local officials and competing for contracts to manage ports or exploit natural resources.
Hundreds of thousands of protesters coursed through the streets of San Juan, demanding that Gov. Ricardo Rosselló resign and 
It was the final straw for Puerto Ricans, who in the past decade have suffered through unemployment, government-imposed austerity measures and the devastation of Hurricane Maria. Some see this crisis as a chance to rethink the U.S. territory’s domestic power structure, which has long been controlled by two political parties.
The huge protests this summer against mainland China have fueled one of Hong Kong’s worst political crises, but beneath them is 
The gap between the rich and the poor is at its widest in almost half a century, and nearly one in five people live in poverty. Pro-democracy activists believe that direct elections would give them a greater say in Hong Kong’s crucial economic decisions, although some pro-Beijing officials see greater gains from more integration with the mainland.
And we look at how real estate brokers and marketers 
He will forever be a cute kid wizard for a certain generation.
But members of that generation might be feeling their age today: 
He’s hardly been idle. In the eight years since the release of the last “Harry Potter” film, 
He’s also became a published poet under the pen name Jacob Gershon; had his portrait hung in the National Portrait Gallery in London; and voiced characters in “The Simpsons,” “Robot Chicken” and “Bojack Horseman.”
On the BBC show “Who Do You Think You Are?” this week, he broke down in tears 
In Mr. Radcliffe’s next film, “
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Matthew