
Good morning.
We’re covering a deadly arson attack in 
In one of the deadliest attacks in the country in decades, a man 
Many of the dead were found lying atop one another near the doorway to the roof, which was closed but not locked, the public broadcaster NHK reported. 
News reports citing the police said the 41-year-old suspect had entered the building screaming “Die!" and collapsed after he tried to escape the flames. He was being treated for burns before further questioning.
The American military 
The news closely follows an announcement from 
While the two incidents escalate the conflict that has pitted Iran against some of its neighbors and the U.S., Iran’s foreign minister, 
Since then, there have been attacks on tankers in the Strait of Hormuz, and Iran has exceeded the limits set in the 2015 nuclear agreement on the size of its uranium stockpile. 
The race to develop 5G networks has split the world in two: those that have embraced Huawei as the provider and those that have shunned the Chinese technology company, citing the Trump administration’s concerns that it might enable Chinese espionage. 
But the fault lines are not always predictable. While in many parts of Southeast Asia, Huawei has a strong foothold, mobile carriers in Vietnam — a country close to China geographically, economically and politically — appear to be 
After China placed an oil rig off Vietnam’s coast in 2014, marauding crowds of Vietnamese workers stormed factories and attacked Chinese laborers.
British lawmakers passed a measure that 
The move — which received stronger support than expected — sets up a clash between Parliament and Boris Johnson, who is widely expected to succeed Prime Minister Theresa May next week and has advocated a no-deal Brexit. 
Anti-Brexit lawmakers said the vote against suspending Parliament raised the chances of a second Brexit referendum.
Five decades ago tomorrow, Neil Armstrong stepped onto the powdery surface of the moon in humankind’s first ever journey from one world to another. Those historic bootprints “could outlast the race that made them,” 
To mark the anniversary of the Apollo 11 mission, The Times has produced 
And a growing number of theme parks, hotels and special attractions 
Events in New Zealand will honor him, including the premiere of an orchestral work 
Hillary and Norgay were the sole climbers from a Royal Geographic Expedition to reach the top of the world’s tallest peak, succeeding where 30 years of attempts had failed. 
The feat made the pair global celebrities. In the 1960s, Hillary founded 
Known back home as “Sir Ed,” Hillary became synonymous with qualities his countryfolk prized: humility and steely determination. In 2008, he received a rare state funeral, and in 1992, his face replaced Queen Elizabeth’s on 
That’s it for this briefing. 
— Alisha