
Yesterday’s testimony by Michael Cohen, President Trump’s former personal lawyer, before the House Oversight Committee was 
Robert Lighthizer, the president’s top trade adviser, warned lawmakers yesterday that hurdles remained to reaching a significant trade deal with China, 
The main topic at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Spain, this week has been the long-hyped next generation of wireless networks, known as 5G, 
Today was supposed to bring a denuclearization deal between America and North Korea. Instead, officials 
A week ago, the British prime minister was on the brink of resignations by cabinet officials and a crushing defeat in Parliament over her Brexit plan. Now, she has won another two weeks to tweak her agreement and convince lawmakers to back it.
News stories about Americans outraged by smaller tax refunds are everywhere. But Neil Irwin of the Upshot says 
• “The tax law that President Trump signed at the end of 2017 reduced the average American household’s 2018 average federal income tax obligation by about $1,600, according to an analysis by the Tax Policy Center.”
• But it meant that many workers prepaid less tax. The average tax refund filed through mid-February was down 17 percent from the same time last year, according to the I.R.S.
• A dollar today is worth more than a dollar tomorrow, Mr. Irwin notes — which means a lower initial bill is worth more than a bigger refund.
• Economists remain baffled by the phenomenon of people even wanting refunds. “Why do they want to make interest-free loans to the government?” asks Richard Thaler, the Nobel-winning economist.
Car ownership is falling out of fashion — under pressure from rising prices, tightening environmental rules, ride-hailing competition and the promise of a self-driving future. In its 
• “A decade ago the auto industry predicted annual global vehicle sales would top 100 million by now, but they’ve stalled instead, falling to 94.2 million last year, down 1 million from 2017.”
• “Major urban centers such as London, Madrid, and Mexico City are restricting cars’ access. Such constraints, plus the expansion of the sharing economy and the advent of the autonomous age, have made automakers nervous.”
• “ ‘When you put all these trends together, you’re going to see a cap on personal vehicle ownership start to emerge,’ says Mike Ramsey, an automotive consultant with researcher Gartner Inc. ‘We are near peak car.’ ”
• “Rather than signaling the end of the road for the automobile, peak car is a reflection that reurbanization and the widespread adoption of mobile apps that can summon a vehicle on demand will lessen the need for many of the 1.3 billion vehicles now on the road.”
• “Automakers may talk a good game about moving metal, but increasingly they’re chasing profits expected to come from services that charge by the mile.”
A 
CBS reportedly plans to 
The law firm Freshfields hired 
One of Bristol-Myers Squibb’s biggest shareholders, Wellington Management, opposes its $74 billion bid for Celgene. (
Elliott Management has demanded seats on the boards of several Hyundai companies. (
The German pharmaceutical and chemicals company Merck bid $5.9 billion to buy Versum Materials, in the hope of breaking up a deal with a rival, Entegris. (
Disney is reportedly in talks to buy AT&T’s 10 percent stake in the streaming service Hulu. (
KKR and Tencent Music are said to be weighing potential investments in Vivendi’s Universal Music unit. (
The attorney general for the District of Columbia has subpoenaed documents from President Trump’s inaugural committee. (
The House voted yesterday to require background checks for all gun buyers, the biggest gun-control bill that it has passed in 25 years. (
Beto O’Rourke is reportedly close to announcing that he will run for president in 2020. (
State intervention in companies is making a comeback in Europe. (
Here are 10 breakthrough technologies that Bill Gates says will change the world. (
Could Elon Musk 
Facebook says it fired an employee who leaked internal communications about content moderation to a group accusing the company of bias against conservatives. (
The F.T.C. announced a $5.7 million settlement with Musical.ly over accusations that the company’s app illegally collected children’s personal information. (
Why are there suddenly so many $100 bills? (
As its economy sags, China is reportedly facing 
The venture capitalist Michael Moritz will sponsor the Booker Prize for the next five years. (
How debt makes the markets volatile. (
The stock rout at the end of 2018 reportedly wiped $1 trillion off the fortunes of the world’s richest individuals. (