
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering clashes between Britain’s 
In their first head-to-head debate, the two contenders to lead the Conservative Party — and thus succeed Theresa May as prime minister — 
Jeremy Hunt, the foreign secretary, challenged Boris Johnson, his predecessor, to say he would resign as prime minister if he did not extract Britain from the E.U. on Oct. 31, as he has promised. Mr. Johnson dodged, but he also went on the attack, saying he admired Mr. Hunt’s ability “to change his mind” — referring to his former opposition to Britain’s withdrawal from the bloc.
Mr. Hunt described Mr. Trump’s comments as “unacceptable,” while Mr. Johnson offered only mild criticism and said he had good relations with the White House. 
A decade ago, top executives at France Télécom wanted to shrink the company by thousands of workers. But they couldn’t fire most of them. The workers were state employees and therefore guaranteed jobs for life.
So the executives resolved to make life so unbearable that the workers would leave, prosecutors say. Instead, at least 35 employees killed themselves, feeling trapped, betrayed and despairing of ever finding new work in France’s immobile labor market.
The former executives are 
Alexis Tsipras ceded the office of prime minister to Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the center-right New Democracy leader, 
President Emmanuel Macron’s next chapter in altering the French economy involves tightening jobless benefits to get the unemployed back to work faster.
But the plans 
And happiness isn’t something that just happens to you. 
For a psychoactive substance that’s still nominally illegal in most of the world, cannabis has never been more popular in the U.S. 
Lizzie Post, the great-great-granddaughter of the American etiquette doyenne Emily Post, delves into the finer points with a new book called “Higher Etiquette,” which Dwight Garner, a Times book critic, calls “
As for bogarting — that’s wastefully hanging on to a joint without smoking it — Ms. Post notes that the term is “derived from the way Humphrey Bogart would just let a cigarette hang out of his mouth, not seeming to actually smoke it.”
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Melina