
Good morning.
During tests last week that recreated the scenario on the doomed Lion Air flight in October, pilots discovered they had 
The tests simulated a single sensor failing, which triggered software designed to help prevent a stall. To keep the plane from going into an unrecoverable nose dive in less than a minute, the pilots had to make a series of rapid-fire control changes.
The pilots in the tests succeeded, but they had a good understanding of how the system worked. In the Lion Air crash in Indonesia, pilots who were seemingly unaware of the system tried more than two dozen times to override the plane’s automated response.
The British Parliament will 
The week is shaping up to be critical, both for Prime Minister Theresa May and for those who oppose her withdrawal plan from the bloc, which would provide for a status quo transition period but would eventually take Britain out of Europe’s main economic structures. 
After 
Cyclone Idai, which delivered devastating rains, floods and winds to Mozambique, Zimbabwe and Malawi, created 
At least 600,000 people have been displaced, water and food are in short supply, and the first cases of cholera are being reported by the Red Cross.
Death tolls are uncertain, and the extent of the storm’s damage is still emerging. In Mozambique, which was hit especially hard, the government said that at least 400 people have died.
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, on his way back to Israel from Washington to confront an escalating conflict with Hamas, said that President Trump’s recognition of Israel’s sovereignty over the Golan Heights 
“When you start wars of aggression, you lose territory, do not come and claim it afterwards. It belongs to us,” he said. He later told reporters: “Everyone says you can’t hold an occupied territory, but this proves you can. If occupied in a defensive war, then it’s ours.”
The remarks, just ahead of the general elections in two weeks, were likely to cheer right-wing Israelis who believe that international acceptance of Israeli control of the Golan could pave the way for the annexation of parts of the occupied West Bank.
The West Bank has around 1.8 million Palestinian residents, who would vigorously oppose Israeli annexation.
“Boeing” is synonymous with airplanes — though maybe it should be spelled Böing.
According to Mr. Boeing’s 
“Convinced that there was a definite future in aviation, I became interested in the construction as well as the flying of aircraft,” he once told an interviewer.
That interest eventually led to the Boeing Airplane Company, which initially focused on military planes but has long been known for its commercial aircraft.
Mr. Boeing left his namesake company in 1934 to pursue work in other industries, including lumber, real estate, horse breeding and livestock farming, though he continued consulting for Boeing for the rest of his life.