
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering Boris Johnson’s promises to 
Amid resignations within his own party and protests over the prorogation of Parliament, Prime Minister Boris Johnson 
Mr. Johnson promised that Britain’s Brexit negotiators would sit down with their European counterparts twice a week through September, with the possibility of additional technical meetings, to try to reach a deal that would avert the risk of a cliff-edge departure.
“While I have been encouraged with my discussions with E.U. leaders over recent weeks that there is a willingness to talk about alternatives to the anti-democratic backstop,” he said in comments released by his office, “it is now time for both sides to step up the tempo.”
The departing prime minister of Italy, after 14 months of being ignored and mocked, has been 
In accepting the mandate to form a government on Thursday, Mr. Conte said that he wanted to win back lost time “to allow Italy, a founding member of the European Union, to rise again as a protagonist” and “transform this moment of crisis into an opportunity.”
An ambitious new study 
The study in the journal Science found that genes account for perhaps a third of the influence on whether someone has same-sex sex, along with social and environmental factors.
“I hope that the science can be used to educate people a little bit more about how natural and normal same-sex behavior is,” said one of the lead researchers. “It’s written into our genes and it’s part of our environment. This is part of our species and it’s part of who we are.”
The Times is reporting on disturbing new accusations that 
Mr. Epstein’s accusers contend in court papers that his onetime partner Ghislaine Maxwell, along with a small cadre of other women — including several assistants and one referred to as Ms. Maxwell’s “lieutenant” — helped Mr. Epstein lure girls into his orbit and managed the logistics of his encounters with them. 
France is famous for its long summer vacations. In Paris, handwritten notes pop up on the doors of the local bakery, brasserie or locksmith indicating that the owners are away and that you should be, too. 
But for many, 
And if you use Slack to escape from email hell, we can help you 
The Marvel Comics character turns 80 on Saturday. Created by the writer-artist Bill Everett, he has been 
In his origin story, published on Aug. 31, 1939, he is a force of nature personified. Two divers who spot him in the ocean depths are in awe of “the long strokes of his powerful arms.”
Under water, his hair and skin color vary. On land, he has brown hair and is Caucasian — closer to his modern look.
The cartoonist Art Spiegelman, writing about how fascism shaped the golden age of comics in the 1940s, 
The reason for Namor’s rage resonates today: undersea explosions set off by a scientific expedition. With the kingdom of Atlantis threatened, his mother tells him, “It is your duty to lead us into battle!” And so he has, for eight decades and counting.
That’s it for this briefing. We’re off on Monday for the U.S. Labor Day holiday. See you next time.
— Melina