
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering the latest in the Trump administration’s 
The trade war with China is back on — not that it was ever really off.
President Trump said he would impose a 10 percent tariff on another 
Mr. Trump said China had failed to follow through on promises to buy more American agricultural products and to stop the export of the powerful opiate fentanyl into the U.S. The escalation of the long-running trade dispute triggered a 
With tensions with Iran rising, the U.S. and Britain have been shopping for European supports to bolster patrols in the Persian Gulf around the Strait of Hormuz.
But so far the American requests for help to escort shipping in the gulf have been met with silence or rejection, 
Many nations including France, Germany, Italy and Sweden have yet to respond favorably to Britain’s suggestion of a European escort force, even after Iran seized a British-flagged tanker in the gulf.
In the first electoral test for Britain’s new prime minister, the 
Though Mr. Johnson has remained steadfast in his commitment to a Brexit by Oct. 31, with or without a deal, the loss is a reminder of the fragility of his position in Parliament.
The trickle of Democrats in favor of opening a full impeachment inquiry into President Trump is 
The House’s summer break was expected to lower the temperature around impeachment. Instead, the pressure is rising on Speaker Nancy Pelosi to take the full House vote she has tried to avoid all year.
About a third of all migrants who arrived in Germany in 2015 are now fully integrated into the work force and contributing to the economy. 
But many companies that heeded Chancellor Angela Merkel’s call to integrate refugees are angry that 
We also have a guide on 
As Hong Kong has been 
The phrase 加油 (
“It’s also a way to encourage people to persevere through other sorts of difficulty,” 
The historical record is spotty, but “add oil” is believed to have first been used at the Macau Grand Prix in the 1960s before seeping into Hong Kong slang. It was also widely used during the pro-democracy Umbrella Movement protests in 2014, and in 2018 “add oil” was 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Melina