
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning,
We’re covering the announced departure of 
Facing a cabinet rebellion over her latest Brexit plan, the British prime minister said today that she would step down as leader of the Conservative Party on June 7, with the process to replace her beginning the following week. 
Mrs. May said that she was honored to serve the country as its “second female prime minister, but certainly not the last,” and that the role had been the honor of her life.
The Hollywood producer and his former studio’s board members 
Mr. Weinstein is facing criminal charges in New York over allegations of sexual violence against two women. But more than 80 women have accused him of wrongdoing, and many complaints involve sexual harassment, which is not a crime. Therefore, the details of any settlement — such as whether it includes an admission of wrongdoing by Mr. Weinstein — would have symbolic significance.
The president took steps on Thursday to 
Mr. Trump ordered the C.I.A. and 15 other intelligence agencies to cooperate with the review and granted Mr. Barr — who has described the investigation as “spying” — the authority to unilaterally declassify documents.
F.B.I. officials have denied that anything improper took place in relation to the Russia inquiry.
The WikiLeaks founder 
The case raises profound First Amendment issues, as it could open the door to 
After a series of weather crises this spring, much of the central U.S. is preparing today for more nasty storms, floodwaters and the potential for powerful tornadoes. 
River levels around the region are also on the rise. The Missouri River is expected to crest early Saturday at more than 32 feet — 11 feet higher than flood level, according to the National Weather Service.
More than 200 million women and girls alive today have undergone genital cutting, ranging from nicks to extreme damage. Yet there has been little rigorous research on how surgeons can relieve 
Saffiatu Sillah, pictured above, is 
And wondering if you should dry clean your wool garments? 
Millions of Americans will be grilling and eating hamburgers this weekend for the Memorial Day holiday.
Today, the concept is simple: a beef patty on a bun.
But the history of the hamburger is a winding food tale that dates from the first century, when Romans 
Hamburg was known for the quality of its beef, so when German immigrants arrived in the U.S. in the mid-19th century, restaurants began offering a 
When the burger went from a bare patty to a sandwich is in dispute: County fairs in Missouri, New York and Wisconsin at the turn of the 20th century all lay claim to sightings of the first hamburger. With the opening of White Castle in 1921, the hamburger was on the American food map permanently.
Get cooking: Here are 
That’s it for this briefing. We’re off on Monday for the Memorial Day holiday, but we’ll return on Tuesday.
— Chris