
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering everything you need to know about the 
Prime Minister Boris Johnson and the Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn 
The results will determine how — and maybe even whether — Britain will exit the European Union, three and a half years after it voted to do so. The two largest parties running are Conservative and Labour.
In the final rounds of the campaign, he faced intense criticism over the future of 
Jewish leaders in Britain have accused him of tolerating anti-Semitism in the party, which he has denied and sometimes refused to address.
A day after Daw Aung San Suu Kyi listened at The Hague to testimony of horrors inflicted upon the Rohingya Muslims — mass rape, babies thrown to their deaths, villages burned down — the de facto civilian leader 
Human rights experts have called it ethnic cleansing or genocide, and U.N. officials have said the nation’s military generals should be tried for the gravest crimes against humanity. But Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi called it the result of “cycles of intercommunal violence.” 
And she chided outsiders for misunderstanding the situation.
Shares of the world’s largest oil company 
But the slice of it being traded is tiny, the 
The Sheep Shearing and Ram Parade in Queensland, Australia, above, is where our reporter went in February to show that despite tensions between China and Australia, the rate of Chinese tourists visiting the country was surging. 
The photograph is part of our collection of 
In Britain’s divisive, hugely consequential election today, exit polls won’t be cited. There won’t be interviews with candidates or voters or news shows debating the merits of the parties or the issues.
Only after the polls close at 10 p.m. local time will the floodgates open.
The muted coverage 
The broadcast laws emerged in the 20th century, at a time when TV and radio were very powerful, and before online journalism was a force. As licensed entities, news outlets were required to act in the public interest, which was interpreted to include protecting voters from last-minute influences. 
By voluntarily staying within the spirit of the laws, Britain’s print and online news media outlets, and foreign news organizations operating within the country, avoid tempting lawmakers to officially expand the constraints — or possibly add more. 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Melina