
Good morning.
We’ve got two hard-hitting investigations: one into how 
Since taking office, President Trump has turned Twitter into a means of communication as vital as an official statement from the White House press secretary, connecting the ultimate seat of power to the darkest corners of the web.
He uses his account to announce policies, attack rivals and amplify a stream of disinformation, retweeting suspect accounts and lending credibility to white nationalists, anti-Muslim bigots and otherwise obscure conspiracy theorists. 
Saudi Arabia’s oil giant, probably the world’s most profitable enterprise, announced on Sunday its plans for what could be 
The company said it would start selling an unspecified percentage of its shares on the Saudi stock exchange, Tadawul, next month. It didn’t specify a date. 
The I.P.O. has proceeded in fits and starts over three years. Over the last year, foreign investment was tempered by the killing of the journalist Jamal Khashoggi by Saudi agents, but the greater issue now appears to be doubts about the future of fossil fuels, as climate change drives interest in renewable energy. 
That valuation is short of the $2 trillion mark that the crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, had anticipated in 2016 when first announcing plans to take Saudi Aramco public.
Proceeds from the I.P.O. will be funneled into a sovereign wealth fund that will help the kingdom wean its economy off its reliance on oil.
Each year, the European Union pays out $65 billion in farm subsidies meant to support farmers and rural communities. It is by far the biggest line item in the E.U.’s budget. 
But in parts of Central and Eastern Europe, most of the money goes to a 
A New York Times investigation conducted in nine countries for most of 2019 found that the system is warped by corruption and self-dealing. 
In the Czech Republic, companies owned by Prime Minister Andrej Babis collected $42 million in agricultural subsidies last year. 
In the last 80 days, WeWork has seen an implosion unlike any other in the history of start-ups. The company went from a valuation of $47 billion to just $7 billion. Its ridiculed initial public offering was quickly withdrawn. And the company’s chief executive, Adam Neumann, was forced to resign. 
But Mr. Neumann’s exit package is perhaps more astonishing than his company’s downfall. 
Today is the 40th anniversary of Iran’s takeover of the U.S. Embassy in Tehran, the start of a hostage crisis that lasted for 444 days and lives on in strained, distrustful relations 
The wall is a focus of Iran’s annual commemorations of the takeover, which came after President Jimmy Carter allowed the ousted monarch, Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi, to enter the U.S. for cancer treatment.
Iranians were angry at the support for the shah, who had been empowered by a 1953 coup engineered by the U.S. and Britain. The coup became a blueprint for many other U.S. efforts at regime change during the Cold War.
In 2000, The Times obtained a copy of 
The embassy building now holds a museum called the U.S. Den of Espionage. 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Alisha and Melina