
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering Britain’s scrambling to help travelers affected by 
Britain has chartered flights through the next several weeks in a cobbled-together effort to 
The effort, in response to Thomas Cook’s widespread flight cancellations, represents Britain’s largest peacetime repatriation effort. About 150,000 of the travelers were from the United Kingdom, and tens of thousands from Germany.
China made no new promises to take stronger climate action. The U.S. said nothing at all. A host of world leaders announced mere incremental changes in the fight against climate change. 
That was the backdrop to the United Nations’ climate summit, where Greta Thunberg excoriated leaders for their “business as usual” approach to the planet’s rapid warming. “If you choose to fail us, I say we will never forgive you,” she said of her generation and future ones.
Tehran said the tanker that it had seized in July in the Strait of Hormuz could leave on Monday, in 
The move comes more than a month after Britain released an Iranian vessel it had seized off Gibraltar. Given the attack on Saudi oil facilities this month, though, the release of the tanker may not do much to ease tensions.
Jeremy Corbyn, the Labour Party leader, 
A. G. Sulzberger, the publisher of The New York Times, issued a warning about the rising hostility toward journalists around the world, often encouraged by the example of the Trump administration. Among his examples was a news-breaking one: the exit of a correspondent from Egypt under threat of arrest, aided by a U.S. official 
“The United States has done more than any other country to popularize the idea of free expression and to champion the rights of the free press,” Mr. Sulzberger writes. “The time has come for us to fight for those ideals again.”
Are you keeping up with health news? 
The travel company Thomas Cook was in business for nearly 180 years before collapsing on Monday. 
It 
In 1841, he arranged for a train to carry hundreds of members of the temperance society from Leicester, in central England, to a meeting in the nearby town of Loughborough.
With the success of the trip, Cook started offering excursions around Britain, and, in 1855, led his first tour of Europe, a package that included travel, accommodation and food.
His son, John Mason Cook, later joined the business, and in 1872 Thomas Cook 
A statue of Thomas Cook stands outside the Leicester train station, the starting point of his initial excursion.
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Melina