
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering how corruption plagues the 
Each year, the European Union pays out $65 billion in farm subsidies meant to support farmers and rural communities. It is by far the biggest line item in the E.U.’s budget.
But in parts of Central and Eastern Europe, most of the money goes to a connected and powerful few. Governments there, often led by populists, have wide latitude in the secretive process of distributing the subsidies.
In the Czech Republic, companies owned by Prime Minister Andrej Babis collected $42 million in agricultural subsidies last year.
A fresh flood of crude oil production is due to start next year, even as concerns about climate change are growing and worldwide demand is slowing.
The looming new supply — not from the usual producers, but from Brazil, Canada, Norway and Guyana — may be a key reason Saudi Arabia’s giant oil producer, 
The increase in production, along with global efforts to lower emissions, will almost certainly push oil prices down, bringing economic relief to consumers and importing nations.
But it 
That’s short of the $2 trillion mark that the Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, had anticipated when first announcing plans to take it public in 2016.
Since taking office, President Trump has turned Twitter into a means of communication as vital as an official statement from the White House press secretary.
He uses his account to announce policies, attack rivals and amplify a stream of disinformation, retweeting suspicious accounts and lending credibility to white nationalists, anti-Muslim bigots and otherwise obscure conspiracy theorists.
The 
In the last 80 days, WeWork has seen an implosion unlike any other in the history of start-ups. The valuation of the shared office space company went from $47 billion to just $7 billion. Its ridiculed initial public offering was quickly withdrawn. And the company’s chief executive, Adam Neumann, was forced to resign. 
But Mr. Neumann’s exit package is perhaps more astonishing than his company’s downfall. 
Today is the 40th anniversary of Iran’s takeover of the U.S. Embassy in Tehran, the start of a hostage crisis that lasted for 444 days and lives on in strained, distrustful relations between the two countries.
The wall is a focus of Iran’s annual commemorations of the takeover, which came after President Jimmy Carter allowed the ousted monarch, Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi, to enter the U.S. for cancer treatment.
Iranians were angry at the support for the shah, who had been empowered by a 1953 coup engineered by the U.S. and Britain. The coup became a blueprint for many other U.S. efforts at regime change during the Cold War.
In 2000, The Times obtained a copy of 
The embassy building now holds a museum called the U.S. Den of Espionage. 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Victoria