
LONDON — Britain’s first winter election in decades is proving to be a rowdy affair. As the nights draw in, Boris Johnson, the Conservative prime minister, and Jeremy Corbyn, the leader of the opposition Labour Party, have spent their evenings ripping each other to shreds. Labour attacks the prime minister over his trustworthiness; the Tories monster Labour over its spending plans.
Mr. Corbyn’s recently released manifesto — which, among other things, promises to reduce working hours, but not pay, to a four-day week within a decade — is so radical that even some natural supporters doubt its realism. The Conservatives have the opposite problem. With a comfortable lead in the polls, the party has come under fire for producing a risk-averse manifesto remarkable only for its lack of ambition. The messages coming from Conservative politicians aren’t much more exciting. Candidates are at pains to stick to the script and parrot the party’s election slogan — “Get Brexit Done” — at every opportunity. Colleagues with a tendency to go off-message have mysteriously disappeared from public view.
But that’s because in reality, only one thing matters to Mr. Johnson in this election: Brexit. He pulled off a remarkable feat last month when he secured a new Brexit deal from the European Union after nearly two years of deadlock. His critics had deemed it impossible. Brussels had said the withdrawal agreement negotiated under his predecessor, Theresa May, could not be reopened. Frustrated Brexiteers were veering toward “no deal” as their preferred option. By presenting a revised Brexit deal that every Tory Euroskeptic could sign up to, Mr. Johnson changed the political weather. Now, the task before him is to flip enough seats to make his miracle a reality.
To understand the path Mr. Johnson is on, it’s vital to understand why he was picked to succeed Ms. May. It wasn’t because a majority of Conservative members of Parliament liked him — far from it. They were in a hole and needed a way out. As Mr. Johnson put it to me during the leadership contest, his “true selling point” was his ability to win elections.
He may come off as unreliable, but he was twice elected mayor in Labour-leaning London. Back then, Mr. Johnson set himself apart as a Conservative politician who did things differently and could bring new voters on board. During the 2012 Olympics, he was greeted with cheers while other Tories were booed. When he got stuck on a zip wire at an Olympic celebration event, it boosted his popularity rather than turning into an embarrassment. Mr. Johnson was a politician who could defy the usual laws of political gravity.
And that’s why he’s the politician the Conservatives reluctantly sent for when they needed an impossible job done. In fact, he had two: First, agree on a Brexit deal that could unite the party. Second, pass that deal in the House of Commons.
To the surprise of even Mr. Johnson’s allies, the first part has been completed. By moving from a future relationship of close alignment with Brussels to one that leaves open the possibility of a free trade deal, Mr. Johnson has kept the backing of senior Conservative Euroskeptics while purging pro-European dissidents who refused to get on board. The result is a united party and a Brexit deal that is ready to go.
The hope among Tory strategists is that a pre-Brexit election provides Mr. Johnson with a perfect opportunity to unite those who chose Leave in the 2016 referendum — even those who may not be naturally predisposed to a Conservative agenda — to lend their votes to him in order to get the referendum result they wanted.
This approach is not without risk. To succeed, the Conservatives must win seats they never have before. The current electorate is the most volatile in memory. Affluent areas that were once Tory strongholds now hang European Union flags from the windows and could fall to the unashamedly anti-Brexit Liberal Democrats. Some traditional Conservative voters are angry at what they see as the Tories abandoning their role as the party of business for an ideological obsession with Brexit.
Mr. Johnson likes to say “there are no disasters, only opportunities.” The Tories believe their new opportunity is winning over lifelong Labour voters. 
The election will be decided in 
To placate the fears of these would-be supporters, the party has shifted its domestic policy, too, away from its traditional commitment to fiscal austerity and toward a kind of blue-collar conservatism. The recently released manifesto proposes higher spending — by Conservative standards — on the National Health Service and education.
The slogan “Get Brexit Done” is geared toward this message — even if passing the withdrawal agreement is just the first stage of the process. It came from focus groups where voters of all stripes repeatedly cited their desire to deliver the referendum result, whether out of enthusiasm for the project or simply because they want to move on.
If this all sounds a little familiar, it’s because it’s similar to the strategy Ms. May attempted when she called a snap election in 2017 — and then went on to lose her party’s majority. A guidebook produced by the Conservative Party and recently distributed to Tory candidates put it succinctly: “Many of these people may have been considering a vote for the Conservatives but by polling day they returned home to Labour.”
The hope is that a more charismatic leader, a slicker campaign and 
But the fact that Brexit really is on the line in this election may well be enough to rally Leavers to return Mr. Johnson to the prime minister’s office — so he can finish the job.
Katy Balls (