
Grimsby — a once-thriving fishing port on England’s Eastern coast — is the kind of working-class town that Americans might recognize. For decades, it voted for the country’s left-leaning party: In every election since 1945, Grimsby has sent a member of the Labour Party to Parliament. 
Three weeks from now, that streak may end. 
Many Grimsby residents, frustrated with their town’s decline, have decided that the Labour Party is no longer on their side, 
Conservatives have already won control of the local government in Grimsby, and a new poll shows the Conservative candidate for Parliament ahead by 13 percentage points. The election will be held Dec. 12.
 “A realignment in British politics may be in the making,” The Economist explains. A good chunk of the electorate in working-class towns like Grimsby have come to see the Labour Party as big-city elitists, rather than blue-collar allies.
The Economist piece caught my eye partly because I’m reading a 2017 book called “Democracy for Realists: Why Elections Do Not Produce Responsive Government,” by two political scientists, 
Voters don’t tend to make decisions based on which party offers policies favorable to them but instead on which party is in tune with a big part of their social identities. And social identity can be related to class, race, religion and age, among other things. The key, for a political party, is persuading voters that 
Left-leaning parties, like Labour in Britain and the Democrats in the United States, used to win elections in large part through class identity. They now struggle to do so, for a complicated mix of reasons — including both the parties’ own mistakes and a pattern of race-baiting by conservative parties.
How can the left win again in places like Grimsby or, say, Ohio? It doesn’t yet have an answer. Full-throated leftism doesn’t seem to work, based on the Labour party’s 
Throughout much of the world, the left is still searching for an effective way to convey to the voters who often decide elections: 