
MANCHESTER, England — Prime Minister Boris Johnson of Britain insisted on Wednesday that he loved Europe, even as he presented officials in Brussels with a new, detailed plan to pull his country out of the European Union by the end of this month.
Mr. Johnson said Britain was offering a “reasonable compromise” on the vexing question of Ireland, and Brussels said it would study his proposal. But the swift, negative response of Ireland’s leaders suggested it would not draw the two sides any closer to an amicable divorce.
Speaking at the Conservative Party conference in Manchester, Mr. Johnson mixed a 
“It cannot be stressed too much that this is not an anti-European party, and it is not an anti-European country,” Mr. Johnson said. “We love Europe. We are European.” When the audience fell silent, an abashed prime minister added, “At least, I love Europe.”
Mr. Johnson won the crowd back when he repeated 
“People are beginning to feel that they are being taken for fools,” Mr. Johnson said. “They are beginning to suspect that there are forces in this country that simply don’t want Brexit delivered at all. And if they turn out to be right in that suspicion, then I believe there will be grave consequences for trust in democracy.”
Mr. Johnson’s gleefully combative tone seemed calculated less to break a deadlock with the European Union than to mobilize the party’s rank and file for a coming election that he hopes will give him a popular mandate to negotiate with Brussels from a position of greater strength.
The prime minister framed his struggle in populist terms: the people vs. Parliament. He heaped ridicule on lawmakers for thwarting his efforts to push for a “no deal” Brexit and to call an election. If Parliament were a reality television show, he said, “the whole lot of us would have been voted out of the jungle by now.”
On Wednesday, Downing Street announced plans to suspend Parliament again, despite Mr. Johnson’s 
This time, however, the suspension is much shorter, running from Tuesday until Oct. 14, when a new session of Parliament would open. Though lawmakers are likely to grumble, the decision is unlikely to be challenged in court or to provoke the fury of Mr. Johnson’s last suspension.
After his speech, Mr. Johnson briefed the president of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, on the details of Britain’s latest offer. The plan, dubbed “two borders for four years,” would pull Northern Ireland out of the European customs union along with Britain but leave much of the territory’s economy aligned with European Union regulations for a period.
Mr. Juncker welcomed parts of it and found others “problematic,” according to a statement from the commission, which said its experts would review the proposals in more detail. But the Irish prime minister, Leo Varadkar, said the plan was “not promising and does not appear to form the basis of an agreement.”
Irish officials object that it would still require some checkpoints to monitor trade in goods between Northern Ireland and the south, and that the Northern Ireland Parliament would have the right to vote to leave the arrangement in four years.
Ireland’s acquiescence to Britain’s proposal is viewed as necessary to winning the approval of the European Union.
For Mr. Johnson, it was an ambiguous end to a day that began with rousing political theater. After leaving the European Union, he said, his government would focus on domestic priorities, including improving education, tackling crime, creating more housing, building infrastructure and investing in health.
“It is time for us to say loud and clear: We are the party of the N.H.S.,” Mr. Johnson said, referring to the National Health Service, which offers mainly free health care and was created after World War II by the opposition Labour Party, which voters trust more to protect it.
The prime minister’s claim was a direct challenge to the opposition, led by the left-wing leader Jeremy Corbyn, whom Mr. Johnson attacked relentlessly in a preview of the party’s electoral pitch.
“If Jeremy Corbyn were allowed into Downing Street, he would whack up your taxes, he would foul up the economy, he would rip up the alliance between Britain and the U.S.A., and he would break up the United Kingdom,” Mr. Johnson said.
At one point, Mr. Johnson likened Mr. Corbyn to Konstantin Chernenko, the aging, infirm Soviet leader who stumbled into office in the 1980s.
“Look it up,” he told the mystified crowd.
By turns irreverent and impassioned, he drew laughter and applause, as he cheerfully mumbled his way through discussions of “gigabit broadband” and other high-tech investments.
Mr. Johnson acknowledged that Brexit had caused dissension in his family: His brother, Jo, resigned from Parliament over threats of a “no-deal” Brexit, and his sister, Rachel, has criticized his inflammatory language. But he said his mother had voted in the 2016 referendum to leave the bloc.
It was a far merrier performance than that of his predecessor, Theresa May, whose trouble-prone appearance two years ago — when she was interrupted by a prankster, was seized by a coughing spasm and saw 
But Mr. Johnson’s rallying cry for Brexit offered no road map to a solution with Brussels. Indeed, it could merely set the stage for a round of recrimination if the negotiations fail to produce a deal in time.
The latest plan, analysts said, will never pass muster in Ireland because officials fear that customs checks on the island, even if they were tucked well away from the border, would be a magnet for terrorists.
“British Conservatives need to think more about Irish politics,” said Charles Grant, the director of the Center for European Reform, a research group.
Mr. Johnson has always been a darling of the Tory conference. Yet, while activists have united behind his promise to “get Brexit done” by the October deadline and are confident that they have the populist message to win a general election, the mood was at times fragile.
Party members know that their ride under Mr. Johnson could be a roller coaster. There is also unease about his inability to keep 
“There are two vibes here,” said Sophia Gaston, the managing director of the British Foreign Policy Group, a research institute, “a triumphant sense of energy and momentum putting the party on course to win a majority in a general election, and a sense of profound precariousness and that things could fall apart.”