
How did they get to be like this? The English think of themselves as a tolerant, imperturbable people, given to self-deprecation and understatement. To outsiders, they can appear chilly and stuck-up. Now, almost overnight, they (or we, to cast off my thin disguise) seem to have become a bunch of hysterical, self-pitying paranoiacs. Brexit has knocked us off our trolleys, depriving at least half the nation of any sense of proportion.
It is breathtaking that a people renowned, even infamous, for its phlegm should swallow this hogwash. There could be no better guide to the murky labyrinth that has brought us here than “The Politics of Pain,” by 
Out of this weird mind-set (which has possessed somewhere between a third and a half of English voters all through Britain’s membership in the E.U.) arose an even weirder politics, led by the weirdest character ever to reach Downing Street. Among the many other sources that O’Toole ransacks so delightfully, from “The Italian Job” to “Fifty Shades of Grey,” he recalls from Yeats’s “The Fisherman”: “The clever man who cries / The catch cries of the clown.”
From his beginnings as a young correspondent in Brussels, Johnson has employed a shtick that has been a compound of childish gags and playground insults, interspersed with outrageous lies about Brussels’s plans to forbid children to play with balloons or to eat prawn-flavored crisps. He is the naughty boy who boasts of stealing his wife’s toast in a hospital, who ridicules Theresa May’s painstaking negotiations as “polishing a turd” and calls black boys “pickaninnies,” a word not heard in British politics since Enoch Powell 50 years ago (and as O’Toole rightly hazards, deliberately echoed by Boris). “My policy on cake is pro having it and pro eating it.” Oh how we laughed.
There are minor flaws in this irresistible firecracker of a book. It was Madame Defarge, not Madame Lafarge, who sat by the guillotine, and Churchill, not Lloyd George, who decided to send 
But O’Toole’s most luckless misstep has been his premature exultation in the failure of Boris Johnson to become prime minister. He wrote in the British edition of the book, published in November last year and appearing again in this American edition, that Johnson “could not actually make himself leader of a country that had just effectively voted for him,” since he came from “a decadent and dilettante political elite.” Well, as it turned out, in the end he could. The joke had gone so far that it overwhelmed all the sobersides who couldn’t see the joke. Marx was right about that at least: When history repeats itself, tragedy pops up again as farce.
What is O’Toole’s antidote? That we should try to take advantage of this emergent English community and revive it in “the English radical, socialist and liberal traditions.” Is that really a likely runner in a climate of such rancid nationalism? How are the Brexotics to be reconciled to living in a quiet unpretentious country at peace with its neighbors? If you have the answer, do let us know.