
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning,
We’re covering a White House whistle-blower’s account of 
Politicians might not have figured out Britain’s departure from the European Union, but for much of the business world, 
Banks and other financial services companies have shifted jobs and assets to the Continent, and Japanese automakers have scrapped expansion plans. Whatever comes next, the jobs and money are unlikely to return.
Senior Trump administration officials granted security clearances to 
The whistle-blower, Tricia Newbold, is a manager in the Personnel Security Office. She told a House committee last month that two current senior White House officials were among those who had been rejected, according to a memo that the committee’s Democratic staff released on Monday. (
The memo doesn’t identify any of the 25. The Times reported in February that President Trump had ordered his chief of staff, John Kelly, to grant clearance last year to Jared Kushner, Mr. Trump’s son-in-law.
The allegation by Amy Lappos is similar to one made last week by a former Nevada lawmaker, Lucy Flores, and comes as Mr. Biden prepares for a presidential bid. 
A racist photograph in a yearbook. Accusations of sexual assault. An appearance in blackface at a college party.
Over the course of a week in February, revelations about the state’s top three elected officials seemed to threaten their political futures. But calls for resignations have faded, and Gov. Ralph Northam and Lt. Gov. Justin Fairfax have increasingly returned to the public eye.
Some Virginians say the crisis burned itself out by the time the legislature adjourned, while polls showed voters were less enthusiastic about resignations than their representatives were. 
Taylor Mac has challenged audiences with his masterwork, “A 24-Decade History of Popular Music.” The one-man, 24-hour show covers 246 songs from revolutionary times to the present, mixing maximalist, spectacular outfits and revisionist American history.
The 45-year-old artist, pictured above, is now 
And a healthy diet can do more 
We often ask readers for Back Story ideas. Zach Lewis of Chicago suggested we look at the naming of black and white rhinos, both of which are in fact gray.
They have 
In 2003, 
A popular idea was that the Afrikaans word “wyd,” or Dutch “wijd,” meaning “wide,” became “white.” “Black” was simply an easy contrast.
Some other theories: The grazing rhino looked white in grasslands; it rolled in lighter mud or was often covered in bird droppings; albinism is more common among white rhinos; and that at some point, the rhinos were noticeably lighter and darker.
The mistranslation theory was the one he found least likely. “There is no record of ‘wydrhinoceros’ in the literature,” he emailed recently, noting that Dutch speakers would have used “breed,” meaning “broad,” rather than “wijd.”
Speaking of eye-catching fauna, a new species of tarantula has become a scientific celebrity. But 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Chris