
The two articles charge Mr. Trump with abusing his power and obstructing Congress, and assert that he “ignored and injured the interests of the Nation” in “corruptly soliciting” election assistance from the government of Ukraine in the form of investigations that would smear his Democratic political rivals. 
The new provisions, solidified after months of negotiations between House Democrats and the Trump administration, would strengthen the trade deal’s protections for workers.
The agreement handed the administration one of its biggest legislative victories just an hour after Speaker Nancy Pelosi announced formal charges against Mr. Trump. Democrats are also on the verge of approving a bipartisan defense bill and a bill that would lower the cost of prescription drugs. 
The outbreak of cooperation amid impeachment proceedings 
The two gunmen were killed, along with three people in a store, in a firefight involving dozens of law enforcement officers that turned a residential area into a war zone. Helicopters hovered overhead. Schools were on lockdown.
This is a developing story. 
Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s vow to complete Brexit could leave the country vulnerable to price hikes for pharmaceuticals, and the N.H.S. has already deteriorated under his Conservative Party’s watch. Some polls show the health service is neck and neck with Brexit in importance to voters. Above, Mr. Johnson during a campaign event at a construction company today.
The government’s 
The past six years have been the warmest ever recorded in the region. 
The foundation, which has received substantial funding from Charles and David Koch, has salted the Trump administration with many of its top officials.
Executives for Facebook’s WhatsApp and Messenger services say that creating a so-called backdoor would make their users vulnerable to hackers and repressive governments. With 1.5 billion users, WhatsApp is perhaps the world’s most popular encrypted communications platform.
The standoff is just the latest trouble for Big Tech. Major organizations have 
Three years ago, the I.R.S. sent 3.9 million Americans a letter. It said they’d recently paid a fine for not carrying health insurance and suggested possible ways to enroll in coverage. Because of budget constraints, a random 600,000 uninsured taxpayers weren’t sent the letter. 
Voilà — a large-scale, randomized controlled trial. Above, a rally in July to support the Affordable Care Act.
Obtaining insurance reduced premature deaths by an amount that exceeded all expectations, the Treasury Department economists found: 12 percent over two years. In other words, the letters, and the access to health care, saved 700 lives. 
A rookie took his spot 11 weeks ago, but for a half against the Eagles on Monday night, he returned to starting quarterback and resurrected the Giants. But then “the Giants turned back into the pumpkins they have been all season,” 
In college football, three big games determine the national champion, and since there are 40 postseason games, everyone gets a taste of the glory. 
Our critics A.O. Scott and Wesley Morris 
But they didn’t just embody stars of the past. They created new ones.
On the music front, it took months for the songwriter and dancer FKA twigs to perfect “Mary Magdalene,” the title track and centerpiece to her critically acclaimed new album. 
Haemin Sunim was a frustrated graduate student when a friend told him the solution was to “be good to yourself first — then to others.” Now a Buddhist monk, he espouses the power of self-care through Buddhist teachings. 
He offers 
“Even if you feel there are many things in your life that are imperfect,” he says, “if you look at them in a compassionate way, you discover that imperfection, in and of itself, is beautiful and has meaning.”
Have a transcendent night. 