
Two to four articles are expected on presidential abuse of power, obstruction of justice and obstruction of Congress, as is an accompanying impeachment report that could stretch to hundreds of pages. 
The House Judiciary Committee will 
The White House 
Have you been keeping up with the headlines? Test your knowledge with 
The authorities said the gunman, a member of the Saudi Air Force, had watched videos of mass shootings at a dinner party the night before the attack. One senior American official said the gunman did not have any apparent ties to international terrorist groups. 
The gunman reported for a training program at the Florida naval air station about three days before the shooting. 
The shooting was the second attack on a Navy base in a week (the first was at Pearl Harbor, above). Officials are now confronting 
Pete Buttigieg’s surge, Bernie Sanders’s revival, Elizabeth Warren’s struggles and the exit of Kamala Harris have upended the primary, and
In other 2020 news, Mr. Buttigieg is facing criticism for not 
Again and again, people came back to the politics of nationalism, austerity and economic alienation. And the frustrations were rooted in Brexit. Belfast, Northern Ireland, above, has become a sticking point in a final Brexit deal.
On Thursday, voters will have their say as Prime Minister Boris Johnson, a pro-Brexit Conservative, faces off against Jeremy Corbyn, the Labour Party’s leader. One celebrity has been hitting the pavement particularly hard before the vote: 
The famous pasta-making women of Bari, Italy, sell baggies of orecchiette out of ground-floor kitchens. But the nonnas are worried that a recent a crackdown on contraband orecchiette, the city’s renowned ear-shaped pasta, 
“They should help us pass this tradition down, not exterminate it,” one pasta maker said.
We traced their story from their improbable love affair in the concentration camp to their dangerous escapes to safety and settlement in the U.S., and the sobering answer Mr. Wisnia was looking for. 
The Wilpon family announced it was negotiating to sell a controlling interest in the Mets to the 
And the Knicks fired Coach David Fizdale. With a 4-18 start, the team is on course for one of its worst seasons in franchise history. Our columnist writes that 
That’s what the actress Constance Wu had to say when the Opinion section asked a group of artists, scientists, writers and thinkers
And André Aciman, the author of “Call Me by Your Name” and “Find Me,” said this on the subject: “Under the spell of beauty, we experience a rare condition called plenitude, where we want for nothing.”
2I/Borisov, an ice cube from beyond our solar system, will make its closest approach to the sun this weekend, trailing mystery and dust. It is only the second known interstellar object to enter our solar system.
The comet will make a 
Stories this week include a look at how one high school Class of 2000 fell into deep opioid addiction, the not-so-glamorous life of working at Equinox, hand-clapping games from around the world, above, and more.
For more ideas on what to read, watch and listen to, may we suggest these 
And if you’re looking for something to cook this week, 
Hope you have some fun this week. 