
The approval of two articles of impeachment, which charge that Mr. Trump abused the power of his office and obstructed Congress, followed a fractious two-day debate. The committee’s chairman, Representative Jerrold Nadler, postponed a vote until this morning after arguments ran late into the night on Thursday. 
The full House is expected to vote on the articles next week. A Senate trial would then begin in the new year. 
“It’s a very sad thing for our country,” Mr. Trump said at the White House, “but it seems to be very good for me politically.”
But the terms of that exit remain unclear, perhaps even more so in the wake of the election. Mr. Johnson’s victory has drawn in millions of former Labour voters whose vision of Brexit is far different from the Conservative establishment’s, 
The vote signaled a sharp realignment of the country’s election map along lines shaped by Brexit, resulting in Labour’s worst showing in 80 years. 
Both Scotland and Northern Ireland strongly oppose Mr. Johnson’s Brexit plan. With that now a certainty, independence is in the air, 
The agreement includes a commitment by China to buy more agriculture products and to strengthen laws protecting foreign companies operating there. President Trump called it a “phenomenal deal” during an event at the White House, and said that talks for a second phase of the trade deal would begin immediately. 
The limited agreement was widely viewed as a détente that would prevent an escalation of tariffs ahead of the 2020 election. 
The decision could give the public a look at information the president has gone to extraordinary lengths to protect. Or the justices could rule that his financial affairs are not legitimate subjects of inquiry so long as he remains in office.
Either way, the court is now poised to produce a once-in-a-generation statement on presidential accountability.
The boy, who has not been identified, was charged with murder, robbery and criminal possession of a weapon, one official said. Police believe two other teenagers participated in the stabbing of Tessa Majors, 18, on Wednesday night as she was walking through Morningside Park in Manhattan.
Residents have raised concerns about persistent crime in the park, even as the neighborhood improved.
We spoke to voters across the country who are suffering from versions of political angst. Some have general malaise from the lengthy process, and others have specific qualms, including, “If they’re not going to get along, they need to keep quiet,” and, “It’s not fun anymore.”
In an update to the study our team 
These kinds of shoes from Nike — which feature carbon plates and springy midsole foam — have become an explosive issue among runners. Eliud Kipchoge of Kenya broke the two-hour marathon barrier in October wearing the thick-soled kicks.
In the latest 
Our Opinion columnist Farhad Manjoo makes the case for America’s public restrooms. Everywhere you look, there are cleaner, more private and more inclusive loos. 
Clouds, their manifesto says, are not signs of negativity and gloom, but rather “nature’s poetry” and “the most egalitarian of her displays.” 
“It’s always a good year for clouds,” said one meteorologist living in York, England.
Bronner’s Christmas Wonderland, outside Detroit, bills itself as the 
Despite the traditional look of Bronner’s, the company must keep up with the latest trends: Bob Ross ornaments flew off the shelves in June; four years ago owls were trending, now it’s sloths. Santa, though, is always in season.
“People like Christmas all year long,” the store’s chief executive said. “There’s nothing negative with Christmas.”
Have a jolly weekend.