
Earlier this week, the family and its pharmaceutical company, OxyContin-maker Purdue Pharma, reached a tentative settlement involving thousands of cases. Above, a protest last year in front of Purdue Headquarters in Stamford, Conn.
But officials in New York and many other states have balked at the deal, and are trying to reclaim parts of the Sackler fortune before a planned Purdue bankruptcy that could constrain payouts.
The requests, part of an investigation into the market power and behavior of the biggest tech companies, come as similar inquiries are underway at the Justice Department, the Federal Trade Commission and by the attorneys general of dozens of states.
The 10 presidential hopefuls 
The next debate is only a month away. Eleven candidates have qualified so far for the event, which will be 
After the U.K. prime minister asked Queen Elizabeth II last month to suspend Parliament, a Scottish court ruled that he had abused his power by misleading her with his rationale. Above, the two met at Buckingham Palace in July.
The suspension 
Her sentence, which included a $30,000 fine, a year of supervised release and 250 hours of community service, was being closely watched as an indication of how harshly other parents would be punished. Above, Ms. Huffman leaving a Boston courthouse on Friday.
“In my desperation to be a good mother I talked myself into believing that all I was doing was giving my daughter a fair shot,” wrote Ms. Huffman, who paid a college consultant $15,000 to inflate her daughter’s SAT score. She added that she saw “the irony in that statement now.”
The recommendation by experts all but assures the agency will approve the drug, a 
The plan, 
We also looked at 
Relocating to a new city can go from bad to worse in a split second. One urban sociologist argues that the problem for many people is that they overlook the inherent logic or personality — everything from the height of the buildings to behavioral norms — of a city. 
And on the topic of advice: We have a new Travel column that aims to help resolve the thorniest and most upsetting vacation disasters. 
We also spoke with 
The secret to Japanese comfort food is a 
Tejal Rao spoke with a cooking teacher in Los Angeles who stocks her pantry with blocks of spice for an easy way to add a mellow heat and an umami punch to any meal.
“We get tired of ramen, we get tired of sushi,” the teacher said, “but we never, ever get tired of curry.”
Have a delectable weekend.