
We’re only beginning to hear what Lt. Col. Alexander Vindman, the top Ukraine expert on the National Security Council, told lawmakers today — including how he twice reported his concerns to a White House lawyer about how President Trump and his inner circle treated Ukraine. 
Also, House Democrats unveiled rules for taking the impeachment inquiry public, 
High winds — some nearing hurricane strength — are expected late tonight, raising the prospect of more fires and the rapid growth of existing blazes. Above, Windsor, Calif.
As the climate warms, these fierce winds — known as Santa Ana in Southern California and Diablo in the northern part of the state — may shift along with precipitation in a way 
And in today’s Debatable from Opinion: 
Dennis Muilenburg 
Mr. Muilenburg also outlined changes being made to the plane and the company. “We’ve been challenged and changed by these accidents,” he said. “We made some mistakes, and we got some things wrong.”
The 438-20 vote in Parliament came after the opposition Labour Party dropped its resistance to an early election. Mr. Johnson is likely to make a case for a swift Brexit, while the opposition is likely to propose holding a second referendum about whether to leave at all.
Mr. Johnson is hoping that his party can convert its current polling lead into a parliamentary majority that could smooth the Brexit process in the months ahead. But first: A six-week campaign lies ahead.
The number surpasses the surge of unaccompanied minors apprehended during the Obama administration that set off a crisis. Above, young migrants at a shelter in Tenosique, Mexico.
In the same period, Mexico detained about 40,500 underage migrants traveling north without their parents — pushing the total number of detained children in the region to more than 115,000.
The standard way of calculating land elevation is based on satellite readings, but they often don’t differentiate true ground level from the tops of trees or buildings. Researchers with the New Jersey-based science organization Climate Central used artificial intelligence to determine the error rate and corrected for it.
Their findings show that some 
After falling to the Washington Nationals in the first two games of the World Series, the Astros clinched Games 3, 4 and 5 at Nationals Park. Tonight at 8 p.m. Eastern, they’ll try for their second title, at home in Houston, above.
Losing three games in a row hasn’t put a dent in the Nationals’ positivity. 
For older Washington fans, baseball came and went — for a long time. Last week, a Times editor who grew up in Washington 
Our restaurant critic says Peter Luger, one of New York’s iconic steakhouses, has lost its sizzle. 
For his new seasonal album, 
As our international sports correspondent Andrew Keh prepared to leave his current assignment, he reflected on “the deeper understanding of sports at their essence, of the heart of why people everywhere gather to compete.” 
In that spirit, he decided to go to the 
Competitors are allowed two matches and one minute to light up, and the goal is to smoke a cigar the slowest. The world record is 3 hours 52 minutes 55 seconds. 
Have a leisurely night.