
Business leaders had plenty of reasons to worry in the first half: Economic growth slowed, geopolitical tensions were on the rise and the trade war seemed unending.
But they looked past all that to strike big deals at a record pace.
A flurry of so-called megamergers — those valued at $10 billion or more — during the first half pushed the value of announced acquisitions in the United States above $1 trillion for the first time, according to data from Refinitiv. Worldwide, the value of deals stood at about $2 trillion.
In June alone, acquisitions worth more than $400 billion were announced, the most in a single month this year. That included large purchases like 
But below these big figures is some evidence of caution. The value of so-called cross-border deals was down 46 percent from a year ago, when it reached about $900 billion. Chinese companies, which went on an overseas binge three years ago, announced just $19 billion in acquisitions, down about 74 percent from a year ago.
And in Europe and Asia, where President Trump’s trade policies and the unresolved nature of Brexit have exacerbated an economic slowdown, deal-making tumbled.
European mergers dropped 56 percent. Underscoring the extent of that decrease, European deals accounted for just 15 percent of the total worldwide. That’s the lowest share in two decades. And the slowdown may well persist as Britain’s effort to exit the European Union drags on.
“If you’re looking to do a deal in Europe you’re going to wait until you get a little more certainty around where Brexit is going,” said Anu Aiyengar, the head of North American mergers and acquisitions at JPMorgan Chase.
It wasn’t all because of worry about the economy. Regulatory concerns — long a frustration for deal makers — and political pushback scuttled big transactions in Europe, notably talks of a tie-up between 
In Asia, where the risk of the trade war is particularly acute, the value of acquisitions fell nearly 28 percent, including a 29 percent drop in China.
In the United States, where the economy proved surprisingly resilient early in 2019, merger activity jumped 19 percent and accounted for 56 percent of the total value of deals worldwide.
Activity was driven by big deals: The United States accounted for 21 of the 25 deals valued at more than $10 billion worldwide, and the value of those deals made up 63 percent of the overall value of American mergers.
Such deals are often financed in large part by stock, which carries less risk for the buyer.
But announcements of smaller deals — those between $1 billion and $5 billion, which are often financed with cash — slipped.
That’s notable because paying in cash requires greater confidence in a target company’s financial prospects and, therefore, the economy’s trajectory. (There is recent evidence, however, that there has been a pickup is such deals.)
Transactions done with all stock have jumped nearly 80 percent, while all-cash transactions have dropped about 20 percent. And for the first time in two decades, the value of all-stock deals exceeded those using all cash, Refinitiv’s data showed.
“So much of M&A is psychology driven. If you feel you have tailwinds, not headwinds, you will be willing to take just a bit more risk,” said William J. Curtin, the global head of mergers and acquisitions at the law firm Hogan Lovells.