
LONDON — The governing Conservative Party in Britain was criticized by Twitter on Wednesday for “attempts to mislead people” after it temporarily changed the name of one of its accounts on the social media site to “factcheckUK.”
The name change was made during the 
At one point during the televised debate, the moderator, Julie Etchingham, asked, “Does the truth matter in this election?”
“I think it does,” Mr. Johnson replied. The audience burst out laughing. 
The Conservatives’ verified account was originally named 
Under the new name, the account minimized references to its political allegiances, swapped out a photograph of Mr. Johnson from its cover, and used a white check mark in a magenta circle as a profile picture. It also offered what was described as a “breaking factcheck.”
The account was described as “Fact checking Labour from CCHQ.”
After the debate ended, the account reverted to its original name and appearance. Twitter said in a statement on Wednesday that the move had been an effort “to mislead people.”
“Any further attempts to mislead people by editing verified profile information — in a manner seen during the UK Election Debate — will result in decisive corrective action,” 
Twitter, which 
The debate was the first major head-to-head between Mr. Johnson and Mr. Corbyn, and a major opportunity for the rival leaders to lay out policies — not least their approach to Britain’s efforts to leave the European Union. 
During the debate, the renamed Conservative account posted tweets claiming to debunk Mr. Corbyn’s statements as well as 
The name change was noted on Twitter during the debate, and attracted widespread opprobrium. 
Full Fact, a fact-checking charity, said the temporary rebrand was 
The Electoral Commission in Britain said in an emailed statement on Wednesday that voters were “entitled to transparency and integrity from campaigners” before an election. The organization called on all involved to “undertake their vital role responsibly and to support campaigning transparency.”
The Labour Party, in a Twitter post, called the name change “a laughable attempt to dupe those watching” the debate. 
Other opposition politicians were similarly indignant. “This is straight out of Donald Trump or Putin’s playbook,” Tom Brake, a member of parliament for the Liberal Democrats, said on Wednesday. “People know they can’t trust a word that Boris Johnson or the Conservatives say.”
Before the 2016 referendum on whether to exit the European Union, the Leave campaign — of which Mr. Johnson was a leading figure — was accused of lies and misinformation about Britain’s prospects after any withdrawal.
James Cleverly, the Conservative Party chairman, defended the renaming of the Twitter account. He said in 
Mr. Cleverly said that the Twitter handle of the account had remained @CCHQpress and that the name clarified “the nature of the site.”
Dominic Raab, the foreign secretary and Conservative lawmaker, also defended the party’s actions. 
“We were standing up,” 
The Conservative Party’s social media strategy has drawn criticism before. 
The party 
But in the original live interview, Mr. Starmer had given a lengthy response to the question. 