
Toward the end of Jonathan Coe’s “Middle England,” a character muses explicitly on a question that has been central to the novel but implicit up to that point, which is “what a writer should or shouldn’t be doing at a time like this.” A time like this being now — the maelstrom of Brexit/Trump/climate change/identity debates/social media — and the choices for a writer coming down to looking away or diving in.
Coe dives in, which is not surprising. His many novels, most of them lightly humorous and deeply humane affairs, have often grappled with the effect of politics inside families and inside England. But there’s usually been at least a few years, if not decades, between history’s unfolding and Coe’s use of it as raw material. “Middle England” ends in the dizzying present.
The novel opens in 2010, and we quickly meet a daunting roster of characters. First up is Benjamin Trotter, whose mother, Sheila, has just died of liver cancer. Benjamin, 50, is quietly ducking away after the funeral reception alongside his dad, Colin, a former car-factory employee who had been married to Sheila for 55 years.
Benjamin’s sister, Lois, and her daughter, Sophie, a 27-year-old art history lecturer, soon enter the scene. Lois is still traumatized by a bombing she witnessed in Birmingham in the 1970s, which killed her boyfriend. (Several of the central characters here appeared in two of Coe’s previous novels, “The Rotters’ Club” and “The Closed Circle.” “Middle England” can easily be read on its own, though starting with 
Crucially there’s also Doug Anderton, a left-leaning journalist and a friend of Benjamin’s since childhood. Doug has semiregular off-the-record meetings at a cafe with Nigel Ives, who works in Prime Minister David Cameron’s communications office.
As late as March 2016, Nigel is telling Doug that he thinks Brexit and the election of Donald Trump are “fantastical” propositions that don’t deserve serious rebuttal, even as he helps push things forward for the Leave-or-Remain referendum. He wonders why leaving wouldn’t be called Brixit, but also says, “It’s not going to happen, so we don’t need a word for it.”
Doug, who is living in a multimillion-dollar home in Chelsea (the money’s not from journalism, naturally), justifiably fears that he’s losing touch with the common man. He’s certainly out of step with his teenage daughter, Coriander, whose “views on racism, inequality and identity politics were utterly uncompromising.” She makes clear that she considers her father “at best a deluded, out-of-touch, middle-of-the-road social democrat, at worst a feeble sellout whose political compromises actually formed a far greater barrier to social justice than anything the Tory Party could come up with.”
Coriander’s mother, Francesca, is glad that her daughter at least cares about the world, but Doug asks, “Does she, though? Sometimes I think she’s just addicted to getting outraged on other people’s behalf.” And that very quality soon gets Sophie, the art history lecturer, in a lot of potential trouble, linking the novel’s two central families in a campus controversy.
That is but a sliver of the cast and the plotting. The most pertinent information about the characters is their ages, and how their generational reflexes create political tensions among them.
Benjamin’s dad, Colin, has voted Conservative in every election since 1950. “I don’t think I heard a word of English spoken on the way here,” Colin complains after arriving at a restaurant in London. His granddaughter realizes that “the thing he was complaining about was the very thing she most liked about this city.” Another character’s mother quotes from an infamous anti-immigration speech, and is suspicious of the Lithuanian woman who cleans her house.
Politics are thorny in the novel, but Coe still makes space for playful humor. He imagines an award-winning writer named Lionel Hampshire, whose latest novel, a failure with the critics, is a feminist science fiction tale called “Fallopia.” He describes a professor of European history who specializes “in the role played by flax in Britain’s trade deals with the Baltic in the early 17th century, a subject on which he had so far written four books.”
Sometimes Coe is a bit more wacky than he’s been in the past. (See: a pair of feuding children’s party clowns who perform under the names Baron Brainbox and Doctor Daredevil.) But on the whole, his touch retains its delicacy.
Creating this of-the-moment milieu requires some believable set pieces, and Coe is good at them: In one, we see Birmingham during the London Riots of 2011. In another, various characters in different locales watch the opening ceremony of the 2012 Olympics on television — the ceremony in which 
Sohan, a friend of Sophie’s whose parents are Sri Lankan, becomes obsessed with representations of Englishness after he sees the ceremony. He eventually thinks that the country’s essence may have been most “powerfully expressed” by Tolkien when he “created the Shire and populated its pastoral idyll with doughty, insular hobbits, prone to somnolence and complacence when left to their own devices but fierce when roused.”
“Middle England,” which hews most closely to the perspectives of Benjamin and Doug, two men more or less at Coe’s stage of life, can certainly be read with pleasure as a novel about middle age — needing to take care of one’s parents, befuddled by one’s children, increasingly curating one’s own memories and regrets. But its ambitions to encapsulate the political moment are obvious, and central to any assessment of it.
There is a minor character who embraces a theory that the white races of Europe are “being subjected to a gradual genocide.” He is quickly and roundly condemned. Several characters rail against “absurd political correctness.” There’s parsing of pronouns and microaggressions and white privilege and preferential hiring policies. Late in the novel, someone is assaulted in public for speaking a language other than English. There are fruitful thoughts about borderless cosmopolitanism and whether appealing to nationalism for political gain is a fire that can be controlled.
A couple of plot points are engineered to warn against oversensitivity on the left, but mostly Coe’s politics appear to be the amiable centrist kind that are now routinely roasted on Twitter.
When Coe recounts the murder of the Parliament member Jo Cox, we get a sense of the chilling delirium that’s been unleashed in recent years. But elsewhere, the novel’s primary characters learn lessons and bridge gaps, and many of them arrive at more-or-less-happy endings. They are pieces on a chess board designed much like the smart-crowd-pleasing novels of Jonathan Franzen and Ian McEwan.
But novels about the Way We Live Now aspire to recreate the feeling of their times, the vibe, as well as the details. And Coe — to his credit, in many ways — doesn’t 
“Middle England” contains great charms, but its very construction and tradition can also make it feel discordant for the moment it hopes to capture; at times it seems like a wrought-iron street lamp trying to represent a bonfire.