
Filling miles of a major highway, tens of thousands of people 
Organizers hoped the island-wide strikes and rallies would draw a million people — about a third of Puerto Rico’s population. It appears to be one of the largest protests in the U.S. territory’s history.
Puerto Ricans have suffered through years of economic austerity measures and the devastation of Hurricane Maria, but the last straw was the publication last week of hundreds of pages of a group chat between Mr. Rosselló and aides that included crude, offensive comments — and revealed a cozy relationship between the governor and former staff members now representing special interests.
_____
The agreement sets out equal growth in domestic and military spending, a key demand of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, offset by about $75 billion in spending cuts.
If enacted before Congress leaves for its August recess, the arrangement would avert a default crisis this fall, putting the next showdown off until after the 2020 elections.
The federal debt has ballooned to $22 trillion. For this fiscal year alone, it has reached $747 billion with two months to go, a 23 percent increase from the year before. But those who once raised alarm over the growing debt — including President Trump himself — have largely fallen silent.
Our Washington bureau poses this and 18 other 
He has already said that he won’t go beyond what is in the 448-page report he delivered on his two-year investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 election. 
But whatever he says, his words will be carefully analyzed, from the points he highlights to the inflections of his voice. The Times will be streaming the hearings and providing live commentary.
_____
The war-torn nation has emerged as a central battleground for 
The United Arab Emirates and Qatar are each providing weapons or military training to favored factions, exchanging allegations about bribing local officials and competing for contracts to manage ports or exploit natural resources.
Our reporters obtained a recording of a phone call with the Qatari ambassador to Somalia, in which a businessman close to the emir of Qatar said that militants had carried out a bombing in the Somalian city of Bosaso — whose port is pictured above — to advance Qatari interests and drive out the U.A.E.
_____
… will be announced Tuesday. Boris Johnson, the darling of rank-and-file Tories hellbent on Brexit, is the strong favorite over Foreign Secretary Jeremy Hunt — though 
Voting among Conservative Party members ended today. The victor takes over from Prime Minister Theresa May on Wednesday, and will face a new complication: the 
Officials in Mrs. May’s government have begun resigning over their opposition to Mr. Johnson’s threat to go through with a no-deal Brexit. Our podcast “The Daily” looks at 
_____
The credit-reporting company agreed to 
About half is for a restitution fund for the 147 million Americans whose personal information was compromised in 2017 when hackers — still unidentified — got access to names, Social Security numbers, birth dates, addresses and driver’s license numbers.
There is little evidence of fraud directly attributed to the breach, but customers have spent countless hours freezing credit files and watching for signs of illicit activity. 
_____
Its chief executive, the Silicon Valley star Sam Altman, above, aims for A.G.I. — artificial general intelligence. It may not arrive for decades or even centuries, if ever.
But the race is on. Elon Musk, an OpenAI co-founder, left the lab last year to concentrate on his own A.I. ambitions at Tesla. DeepMind, a top lab owned by Google’s parent company, is also chasing A.G.I.
_____
The financier, who is charged with sex-trafficking teenage girls, liked to portray himself as an investment wizard, but there is little evidence to support that notion.
Yet he managed to affix himself to a handful of prominent Wall Street veterans, including James Staley, now chief executive of Barclays. We look at 
And we also look at 
_____
The country’s 142-foot, 700-ton rocket of the Chandrayaan-2 mission blasted off at 2:43 p.m. local time from India’s southeast coast, carrying an uncrewed lunar lander and the dreams of a nation.
If the rest of the mission goes well, 
But that won’t be until September, thanks to a fuel-conserving flight plan that takes the mission in widening orbits around the Earth until the moon’s gravity pulls it into lunar orbit.
_____
An international team has found 
The maritime archaeologists are calling it Okänt Skepp, Swedish for “unknown ship.”
But don’t go looking for the Renaissance vessel — the location is being kept secret to deter scavengers and treasure hunters.
And the wreckage of the Minerve, 
May your evening bring you 