
Good morning.
We’re covering the end of a 
Delegates at last week’s climate conference in Madrid were supposed to iron out the details of the Paris climate accords’ rules, set provisions for international carbon trading and ramp up climate-action targets.
Instead, they kicked all of that down the road, and some of the world’s biggest polluters — including Brazil, China, India and the United States — pushed back on a range of climate-friendly proposals and targets. 
The outcome — a weak declaration about the need to reduce emissions — was 
The Conservative Party’s resounding victory in last week’s general election, shown above, made one thing clear: Britain will leave the European Union next month.
But the win — the party’s biggest electoral victory since Margaret Thatcher captured a third term in 1987 — raises a raft of new questions about Britain’s political and economic future.
Can the Conservative government, led by Prime Minister Boris Johnson, deliver on its pledge to 
In Scotland and Northern Ireland — where majorities of voters opposed Brexit in a 2016 referendum — the results of last week’s election has 
That’s particularly true in Scotland, where the dominant Scottish National Party has vowed to press for a second independence referendum (which Mr. Johnson has already rejected).
The Labour Party’s current leader, Jeremy Corbyn, has said he would step down in the new year in the wake of his party’s 
Don’t die at home on a weekend. That’s what a newspaper in northern France advises its readers.
In many countries, the job of certifying a death falls to nurses, coroners, pathologists and other officials. But in France, where the overall number of doctors is increasing, medical doctors must visit the deceased’s home to verify the death — a policy that’s 
Some see these so-called medical deserts as a betrayal. “We felt abandoned by the state,’’ said Frédéric Deleplanque, who had to wait more than two days for a doctor to certify the death of his father-in-law in the northern city of Douai.
By his early 20s, he had become a deadly assassin, or sicario, and an instrument of the drug cartels that are tearing Mexico apart. So when the police caught him, they saw a chance to take down a cartel from the inside.
Our reporters 
The Oxford English Dictionary defines Shazam as “a ‘magic’ word” that introduces “an extraordinary deed or story.”
You may know it from slang, or because of 
It told the story of 
His biggest battle was in the courtroom. Fawcett Comics retired the character after a 
Nearly 20 years later, DC licensed Billy’s alter ego, but by then, Marvel Comics had grabbed the trademark name for its own Captain Marvel. The character is now part of 
So Billy’s alter ego is now named Shazam, and fighting for market share. 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time. 
— Mike