
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning,
We’re covering the effects of 
Europe has been one of Huawei’s biggest success stories. Now it is the front line of the trade and technology war between China and the United States.
Google’s decision to 
European customers will be hit harder than those in the U.S. or China. Huawei phones are largely unavailable in the U.S., and Google has been blocked in China. But the company has flourished at an extraordinary rate in Europe, capturing more than a quarter of the smartphone market.
Britons voted 
Lawmakers took a day off from their back-room machinations to oust Prime Minister Theresa May to participate. 
At polling stations around the country, people lined up to take a thwack at the main parties, Conservative and Labour, with Leavers streaming to a 
The WikiLeaks founder 
The case raises profound First Amendment issues, and the new charges raise the stakes of the case against Mr. Assange, who is already fighting extradition proceedings in London based on 
The indictment accuses Mr. Assange of complicity in Ms. Manning’s leaks, saying he encouraged her over several months.
Narendra Modi, India’s incumbent prime minister, led his party to 
Mr. Modi framed the showing as a triumph by and for ordinary Indians, over those who write off the poor and downtrodden. 
“If someone is victorious, it is India,” Mr. Modi 
Liverpool F.C. is finishing a phenomenal season of soccer — thanks in part to 
Ian Graham, the team’s director of research, built his own database to track the progress of more than 100,000 players around the world. By recommending which of them Liverpool should try to acquire, and then how the new arrivals should be used, he has helped the club, once soccer’s most glamorous and successful, return to the cusp of glory.
We also have a checklist to help you 
Millions of Americans will be grilling and eating hamburgers this weekend for the Memorial Day holiday.
Today, the concept is simple: a beef patty on a bun.
But the history of the hamburger is a winding food tale that dates back to the first century, when Romans 
Hamburg was known for its high-quality beef, so when German immigrants began coming to the U.S. in the mid-19th century, restaurants began offering a 
When the burger went from a bare patty to a sandwich style is in dispute: County fairs in New York, Wisconsin and Missouri at the turn of the 20th century all lay claim to sightings of the first hamburger. With the opening of White Castle in 1921, the hamburger was on the American food map permanently.
And appetite for meat hasn’t stopped: In 2018, the average American ate the equivalent of 
Get cooking: Here are 
That’s it for this briefing. The briefing is off for the U.S. Memorial Day holiday on Monday. See you on Tuesday morning.
— Melina