
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering 
Britain’s new prime minister 
In a speech in Parliament on Thursday, less than 100 days before the nation is expected to crash out of the E.U., Mr. Johnson outlined tough Brexit demands, including the “abolition” of a so-called “backstop” plan that would have 
Both moves appeared intended to send one message to the E.U.: He is serious about leaving without a deal if necessary.
Election systems in all 50 U.S. states were targeted by Russia in 2016, 
But the report — the first from the committee’s investigation into 2016 election meddling — was so heavily redacted at the demand of American intelligence agencies that key lessons for 2020 were blacked out. 
While not directly critical of either American intelligence agencies or the states, the report described what amounted to a cascading intelligence failure.
A 
Scientists say the hottest summers in Europe in the past 500 years have all come in the last 17 years. Several heat waves have been linked to human-caused climate change, and many more are likely 
In response to globally growing anger and potential government regulation after the 2016 U.S. elections, Facebook created a library to hold all the advertisements on the social network. 
Anyone can see individual ads, but researchers say access to the library’s data for creating databases and tools to analyze the ads is so flawed that 
The library was the centerpiece among initiatives like expanded fact-checking efforts that Facebook executives used as examples of how their company could be trusted to fix its own problems. But these issues raise questions about the social media company’s efforts to quash disinformation, and reflect the struggles of big tech firms and governments to counter it. 
President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has sought to dismantle the country’s academic sector in an attempt to consolidate his grip on power.
Since 2017, about 
And technology that allows hotel guests to 
The 
Garlic — a close cousin to onions and leeks — has been consumed by humans for thousands of years as both food and medicine. Hippocrates prescribed garlic to treat a variety of conditions, and the ancient Greeks gave garlic to both Olympic athletes and 
The jury is still out on many health claims (
But do leave your 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Matthew