
It’s back-to-school time: Parents and kids everywhere are filling their backpacks, charging their computers, readying their water bottles and making shopping lists. That this time of year coincides with fashion month has always seemed something of a cosmic joke, or a telling coincidence. The shows, after all, are effectively a back-to-work moment for all.
Or a what-you-will-wear-when-you-go-back-to-work moment (maybe this month, maybe in 2020, depending on whether a brand is on a see now/buy now schedule). And a what-you-will-see-in-the-stores-when-you-go-back-to-work moment (ditto). Definitely a what-you-will-see-on-celebrities-and-influencers-for-the-next-three-months moment (
So what should you expect? Diversity, hopefully, of race, size and age. And a lot more.
For the first time in a while, the 
Some brands are moving their shows to different cities: Peter Pilotto left London for Milan, and Boss left New York for Milan. Telfar has swapped New York for Paris, at least for the collection reveal. First its designer, Telfar
What we won’t see: Sonia Rykiel, which has been liquidated and will not be showing. Also sitting out this season: Kenzo. Its designers, Humberto Leon and Carol Lim, 
In Milan, Roberto Cavalli, which lost its designer and later 
In New York,
 Chew on that. And speaking of power …
As if it ever went away! Things just got a little quieter for a while. Maybe it’s because the last day of New York Fashion Week is also the day of the next, winnowed-down Democratic debate; maybe it’s because of Brexit; maybe that’s just how the world works. At any rate, neutrality is no longer the best look.
News broke in August that Steve Ross, the billionaire investor in Equinox, SoulCycle and Hudson Yards, was throwing a 
Which probably should have been expected given that Mr. Gurung, celebrating his 10th anniversary, has entitled his show “Who Gets to Be American?” Implication clear. (Not surprisingly, Mr. Clemens at Telfar is also focusing on the theme of migration as he … migrates! to Paris). 
Finally, Kerby Jean-Raymond is returning to the New York schedule after skipping last season, unveiling the final chapter in his 
Then, in London, Brexit will be top of everyone’s mind. The British Fashion Council began September by issuing a statement noting, “a no deal Brexit is a scenario that should be avoided.” 
Will Carrie Symonds, Boris Johnson’s girlfriend, make an appearance at any shows, à la Samantha Cameron, and try to effect some détente? Or will she skip them as she did the Group of 7? Will fashion, which was 
And in Paris, will the yellow vests return? Wait and see. But, meanwhile, listen to the talk about …
Earlier this month 32 fashion brands from all the fashion cities, including Ralph Lauren, Burberry, Gucci and Hermès, 
Not everyone is convinced of their sincerity, however. Extinction Rebellion, the climate activists, have announced plans to 
And speaking of action: Stella McCartney, who announced the United Nations sustainable fashion charter at the COP 24 climate conference, has taken her brand, after a brief interregnum as an independent, 
Indeed, the two big Paris groups seem to be engaged in a race to one-up each other in the sustainability stakes: LVMH pledged 
It’s definitely back on the schedule. Ralph Lauren is holding his show at a one-night-only Ralph’s Club, with a dress code that requires black-and-white evening wear. (So Truman Capote.) 
The richest rock star and first celebrity to get 
As it happens, Rihanna is represented by WME, the talent agency part of Endeavor, the globe-straddling behemoth that also happens to own New York Fashion Week. And her show is being produced by Endeavor Content, another arm of the company. 
In other words, the 
In this vein, the Blonds are collaborating with the gang from the new Broadway musical “Moulin Rouge” to stage its NYFW show (inspired by the movie) in the theater with some of the cast performing, and some tickets will be 
And just as they will be at London Fashion Week, which is becoming the first official fashion week to organize shows for the ticket-buying public during the regular schedule. House of Holland and Self-Portrait are the guinea pigs. 
By contrast, the Telfar Clemens film will have a free public screening just after the industry unveiling, though tickets start at $599 for 
Just how much is fashion worth? The answer raises the meta question of how you define a “show.” 