
It’s a late afternoon in North London, two days before 
The designer is wearing a key piece from her collection, a white T-shirt featuring a print of a cartoon clown encircled by stars — a reference to the European Union — with the words “Promising Britain” emblazoned above. “There are very clear political undertones in the collection,” she says. “The tongue is firmly in the cheek. I’m referring to the government.”
The next day, Rose and her team are back in the studio after a late night finalizing the remaining looks, which range from oversize suiting to a fringe jacket paired with brocade chinoiserie trousers. She’s tired and smoking rolled cigarettes but pauses to greet the North London M.C. Bushkin, who is getting fitted for the show — in resin-treated jeans and a dark blazer with exaggerated shoulders — along with a host of street-cast models.
The daughter of a Jamaican father and English mother, Rose grew up as the youngest in a sprawling South London family. Her early encounters with rave culture still influence her today. “I would go to church with my nan, and then after we would go to Clapham Common,” she says, referring to the large South London park where ravers would congregate and dance on Sunday mornings before going home. “I was 9 years old and used to dance all of Sunday with them, and it was so inclusive. That resonated with me on a very profound level.”
Sunday’s show takes place on the rooftop of an office building in the middle of the City, London’s financial district. “The location was very important so that we could see the London skyline,” Rose explains. “As I was designing the collection, corporations were leaving London because of Brexit.” That afternoon, Rose finalizes the order of the looks with her team, working in an empty office space that had until recently housed one of Amazon’s London outposts. A palpable nervous energy builds after the rehearsal, as models go through the final stages of hair and makeup.
As the show begins, guests are packed onto simple white