
On a bluff overlooking Omaha Beach, President Trump and President Emmanuel Macron of France honored the troops who died there in the D-Day operations 75 years ago, and recognized the aging veterans of the campaign who sat behind them onstage.
“To the men that sit behind me and to the boys that rest in the field before me, your example will never grow old,” Mr. Trump said. “Your legend will never die”
The 
“They came here and saved freedom and then they went home and showed us what freedom was all about,”’ Mr. Trump told the crowd.
Mr. Macron also thanked the veterans in attendance and decorated several of the men with the Legion of Honor, the highest award in France, before making a pointed reference to alliance between the two nations.
“We know what we owe America,” Mr. Macron said, turning to Mr. Trump, who was sitting behind him. “America, dear President Donald Trump, is never as great as when it fights for the freedom of others.”
If the first day of President Trump’s state visit to Britain was about pomp and circumstance and the second was about diplomacy and trade, the third, Wednesday, was 
Mr. Trump left London and traveled south to Portsmouth, where he, Queen Elizabeth II and several other world leaders took part in ceremonies to commemorate the 75th anniversary of D-Day.
The ceremony included a formal procession of honor guards from the Royal Navy, Army, Air Force and Welsh Guards, a rousing rendition of “God Save the Queen,” a reading by Mr. Trump of an excerpt from a prayer that President Franklin D. Roosevelt read on the radio on the eve of the D-Day operation, and a high-energy performance to “Boogie Woogie Bugle Boy,” the wartime hit by The Andrews Sisters.
Later in the day, Mr. Trump traveled to Ireland, where he 
President Trump’s focus shifted from royal pageantry to high-level diplomacy on Tuesday, the 
Mr. Trump opened his day with a business round-table meeting, where he spoke in optimistic terms about the possibility of a trade deal between the United States and Britain in the post-Brexit era. From there, he moved to 10 Downing Street for bilateral discussions with Mrs. May. 
At a joint news conference with Mrs. May, Mr. Trump reiterated that his administration was eager to negotiate a “phenomenal” trade deal between the United States and Britain. “There is tremendous potential, I say two, maybe three times more than what we are doing today,” he said.
As Mr. Trump was holding talks, 
Mr. Trump said he had turned down a chance to meet with the opposition leader, Jeremy Corbyn, who has been one of his toughest critics in Britain. He also continued his dispute with London’s mayor, Sadiq Khan, describing him, as well as Mr. Corbyn, a “negative force.”
He did meet on Tuesday with Nigel Farage, the pro-Brexit politician whose new party 
The first day of President Trump’s visit was an ostentatious affair, beginning with scenes of his helicopter landing on the lawn of Buckingham Palace and ending with a formal state banquet hosted by Queen Elizabeth II. 
The president and first lady spent much of the day with the royal family, after a brief stop at the residence of the American ambassador. They had lunch with the queen at Buckingham Palace, and later laid a wreath on the Grave of the Unknown Warrior at Westminster Abbey. Mr. and Mrs. Trump then had tea with Prince Charles at his home, Clarence House, before the evening banquet.
The Trump children were 
Mr. Trump honored the queen during the state dinner, saying she “embodied the spirit of dignity, duty and patriotism that beats proudly in every British heart.”
At Buckingham Palace, Mr. Trump inspected an honor guard with Prince Charles and was joined at the welcoming ceremony by members of his family and his cabinet. 
Outside the palace, large crowds of spectators gathered to watch the president’s arrival — by helicopter.