
LONDON — An estimated $67.4 billion of art was sold worldwide last year, an increase of 6 percent on 2017, according to an influential report released on Friday. Yet growth in the art market remains within a narrow band, the data showed.
The total, cited in the annual Art Basel and UBS report, combined auction and dealer sales and was the second-highest in the last 10 years, behind the $68.2 billion of 2014.
But the report noted that while the number of wealthy individuals in the world had risen sharply, they were not spending much more on art.
The study quoted data from Credit Suisse estimating that the global population of dollar millionaires increased to 42.2 million last year, from 29.7 million in 2011. That does not seem to have translated into art buying, however. In 2011, global art sales were estimated at $64.6 billion, just a small fraction below what Art Basel and UBS calculated they were in 2018.
“The art world seems to have a conversion problem,” said Doug Woodham, managing partner at Art Fiduciary Advisors in New York. “For some time now, spending in the global art market has significantly lagged growth.”
The United States was the largest market, with 44 percent of the world’s art transactions by value, totaling $29.9 billion, its highest level in a decade, according to the report. Britain climbed to second place, with 21 percent of sales (“despite Brexit worries,” the report notes). China dropped from second to third, at 19 percent.
“While we’ve seen another strong year of aggregate sales, the mood of the market in 2018 was generally less optimistic, as many wider economic and political issues continued to weigh heavily on sentiment,” wrote the report’s author, the art economist Clare McAndrew.
The report estimated that in 2018, dealer sales increased 7 percent to an estimated $35.9 billion, or 53 percent of the market. Large-scale gallerists reportedly enjoyed the biggest gains, with sales increasing 17 percent.
The Art Basel and UBS report is the only comprehensive overview of a market that Ms. McAndrew characterized as “notoriously opaque.” While data from public auction sales are freely available, dealer transactions remain private and difficult to quantify. The report estimated gallery sales based on an online survey sent to 6,500 dealers worldwide, including more than 500 that participate in Art Basel shows. Over all, 17.5 percent responded. The results indicated that 46 percent of sales by dealers were made at art fairs.
Because of the relatively small sample size, some experts have expressed skepticism about the methodology and questioned the reliability of the report’s extrapolated figures.
“I find that figure very high,” said Alain Servais, a Belgian collector, referring to the reported sales at art fairs. “It must be based on galleries who do six or seven fairs a year and have specialist teams,” added Mr. Servais, who is a frequent visitor to fairs around the world. He pointed out 
Online sales reached an estimated $6 billion in 2018, up 11 percent year-on-year, according to the Art Basel and UBS report. But that is still less than 10 percent of the market as a whole.
Ms. McAndrew, in the conclusion of the Art Basel and UBS report, said that in recent years, buoyancy in the art market had been supported by “a very small fragment of ultrawealthy buyers” whose involvement was at risk of being affected by “exogenous events.” A broader base of buyers lower down the wealth scale had so far been slower to engage in the market, she said.
Be it Brexit or other geopolitical volatility, “exogenous events” seemed to be weighing on the minds of both sellers and buyers at this past week’s contemporary art auctions in London. In March 2018, Sotheby’s, Christie’s and Phillips’s evening contemporary sales raised 
The standout lot of the week — David Hockney’s monumental 1969 double portrait, “Henry Geldzahler and Christopher Scott” — sold at Christie’s on Wednesday, much as estimated, for £37.7 million.
“That was a good buy,” said the London dealer Offer Waterman. “It was one of the artist’s three or four greatest pictures.”
The price was almost half 
On Thursday, Phillips re-offered the 1963 Gerhard Richter painting, 
“The top end of many markets are probably off about 20 percent,” said Josh Baer, founder of 
The Art Basel and UBS report showed the overall art market growth has been stagnating. If the results in London this week are anything to go by, it might be even be dipping.