
The 
This year’s meeting had little of that. Vice President 
The discussion among Europeans at Wehrkunde was equally disheartening. I spent a few meals listening to Britons and their Continental colleagues debate different Brexit options. In parallel, nervous European liberals dissected the causes of various right-wing populists spiking in popularity throughout the Continent. Few had the bandwidth to contemplate the rise of China and Russia. The darkest discussions swirled around the possible collapse of the eurozone and the European Union more generally.
Both sets of challenges — the future of trans-Atlantic relations and the fate of the European Union — are real. However, the history of Europe over the last 70 years — as traced and explained brilliantly in 
On earlier challenges, Kershaw points out that postwar Europeans tackled difficult issues that make some of today’s troubles seem more manageable. During most of “The Global Age,” Communist regimes loyal to the Soviet Union subjugated millions of Europeans, sometimes through brutal force, as with Hungary in 1956, Czechoslovakia in 1968 and Poland in 1981. Tensions between East and West escalated precariously close to armed conflict, including once
Domestic politics within European countries also exhibited more uncertainty and instability during that era than many now remember. France cycled through governments at an alarming pace before Charles de Gaulle stepped in, sometimes leaving this major power without a government for weeks. Imagine how 24/7 media would have covered that perpetual crisis?
During this “golden age” for Europe, imperial powers had to navigate decolonization. The French wars in Indochina and Algeria and the Portuguese wars in Angola and Mozambique were difficult, regime-threatening challenges that make the French and Portuguese problems of the present day look comparatively minor. And Europe endured domestic violence during this golden age, be it from the Red Brigades in Italy, the Baader-Meinhof Group in West Germany, nationalists in Northern Ireland or separatists in the Basque region. Economic setbacks — especially in 1973 and 2008 — disrupted long periods of growth. Even war, sometimes in the form of ethnic cleansing, erupted in the Balkans in the 1990s. Brexit, immigration, populism and even Jihadist-inspired terrorism seem like much smaller challenges than genocide.
Serious trans-Atlantic divides punctuated this golden era; millions in Europe took to the streets to protest the deployment of American missiles in Europe in the 1980s, and millions more, including almost every leader on the Continent, mobilized against the Bush administration’s decision to invade Iraq in 2003. Next to these events, Pence’s Munich speech will probably become an easily forgettable hiccup (provided nothing more negative happens in American-European relations).
Flowing next to and around these security and economic crises, Kershaw traces several positive, long-term trends in European history from 1950 to 2017 that are downright miraculous. Most important, most of the Continent lived in peace during the Global Age, a sharp contrast to the horrific atrocities chronicled in Kershaw’s previous volume in this series, 
To be sure, all of these amazing trends have slowed or stalled. Europe has yet to fully recover from the 2008 financial crisis; autocratic restoration looms threateningly on the E.U.’s borders in Turkey and Russia, and even inside the union in Hungary, while liberal democracy has yet to consolidate in several countries in the post-Communist world. With the departure of Britain, the European Union is, for the first time, retracting in size. And war returned to Europe in 2014 in Ukraine, where Russian annexation and intervention have sparked a military conflict that has already led to 10,000 lives lost and millions displaced. It would be premature, however, to predict a new negative trajectory. Peace, prosperity and democracy in Europe still have serious momentum.
Europe’s future is especially hard to predict, as Kershaw emphasizes, because “it is easy to underestimate the role of contingency in historical change.” Refreshingly, and against the grain of some current intellectual fads, Kershaw allows for the possibility that individuals — not just innate structural forces — can shape history. For instance, Kershaw assigns a pivotal role to Chancellor Konrad Adenauer in transforming Germany from a Continental menace to an anchor of stability and prosperity. Khrushchev gets a big role in Kershaw’s narrative, too, for reducing repression in the Communist world. And Kershaw reminds us that Prime Minister David Cameron’s decision to hold a referendum on Brexit underscores how the tactical decisions of individual leaders can have strategic consequences. Kershaw ascribes the greatest agency of all to the Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev. “The magnitude of Gorbachev’s personal contributions to the dramatic change, not just in the Soviet Union itself but throughout Eastern Europe, can scarcely be exaggerated.” This is not to say that Kershaw highlights only the role of political leaders — for good and for ill — in his narrative. He also brings in the masses, recounting how mobilized citizens destroyed Communism; an entire chapter is devoted to “Power of the People.”
Kershaw’s theory of agency in the making of history allows for a range of possibilities about the Continent’s future. European leaders should read “The Global Age” to be reminded of the incredible progress of the last 70 years — and told that such progress is something they have the power to sustain through their individual actions. American leaders should also read this book to learn how much better off we have been and could continue to be in concert with a continent of free, secure and prosperous allies.