
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering Beijing’s renewed 
Mr. Xi praised her “courage and responsibility,” but he also offered an implicit warning to protesters, saying that Beijing had an “unwavering determination to safeguard national sovereignty, security and development interests.”
Several people have been killed as the police cracked down around the country. Dozens of students were reportedly hospitalized, some with broken bones, after the police responded to a large demonstration over the weekend at a primarily 
The citizenship bill, part of Mr. Modi’s Hindu-centric agenda, would give special treatment to Hindu and other non-Muslim migrants. The country’s 200 million 
In 2010, technology offered the promise of new connections, cars that could drive themselves and social networks that could take down dictators. 
Since then, its flaws have become abundantly clear. To find out what happened, The Times spoke to Mark Zuckerberg, Edward Snowden, Ellen Pao and other leading figures in the tech world. 
The pro-Brexit Conservatives won last week’s parliamentary elections by a landslide, and the anti-Brexit Liberal Democrats were humiliated. But looking into how the popular vote played out reveals something else: the power of a system that goes by regional races rather than proportion of the national vote. 
By that measure, each Conservative vote had 10 times the effective power of each cast for the Liberal Democrats. Our Interpreter columnist says that skew may be 
I first heard about the expulsions in October, a couple of weeks after the episode. My original source said diplomats in the Chinese Embassy were shocked because it was the first time in their memory that this had happened. The story took me two months to report, in part because I traveled to Hong Kong for two weeks last month to cover the protests, and I’ve been involved in coverage of the impeachment inquiry of President Trump. 
By last week, I had spoken with enough people briefed on the expulsions and gathered enough details to give us confidence. Julian then spoke to a couple of sources who gave us final confirmation.
American intelligence and counterintelligence officers have been tracking such appearances for some time. And on Oct. 16, the State Department announced new rules on visits to official sites by Chinese diplomats — a sign that Chinese officials had been doing things in their travels that were making the administration uncomfortable.
Some American officials think that at least one of the two detained Chinese men was an intelligence officer, and that they were doing a test run at the base, to see if they could penetrate far into the perimeter without consequences. If they had gotten away with it, then a more senior intelligence officer might have tried to get onto the base using a similar tactic. 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Melina