
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning,
We start today with Theresa May’s 
Prime Minister Theresa May on Wednesday 
The same day, lawmakers held a series of nonbinding votes on eight options for Britain’s future. None mustered a majority.
Mrs. May has lost the support of much of her Conservative Party. But her overture led some past critics to say they would back her plan, which Parliament has rejected twice. It could return for a vote as soon as today, but still faces long odds.
President Trump decided to 
The administration’s move angered some Republicans in Congress who worry that it could harm vulnerable incumbents in 2020 and that the party lacks a clear path to passing replacement legislation in a Democrat-controlled House.
The company acknowledged on Wednesday that new software in its jets could have played a role in two deadly crashes and publicly 
Boeing also faced scrutiny in a congressional hearing over the development and certification of the 737 Max jet, the process of which had been heavily delegated to the company by regulators.
By one count, more than 40 million people have filled out a bracket during the N.C.A.A. basketball tournaments.
But as a wide-ranging F.B.I. investigation into athletic recruiting continues to ensnare big-name colleges, fans know about the game’s intractable relationship to corruption.
We spoke to philosophers about 
Since the 1950s, hundreds of dogs have jumped off this gothic stone bridge in a town near Glasgow. Many have ended up dead in the valley below. 
Researchers say there is a rational explanation, but in a land of superstition and mystery, others are not so sure. 
And adventurous women shared 
The superhero turns 
In “
Batman visits a parallel world and prevents the deaths of his parents, the cataclysmic event that makes Bruce Wayne become Batman. (Parallel worlds were a favorite of your Back Story writer, because they imagined so many different paths for DC’s heroes.)
Batman observes a bratty other-Bruce, but he is transfixed by Thomas and Martha Wayne: 
The story’s epilogue is genius. The other-Bruce is changed. While our Batman was born of grief, guilt or vengeance, this one knows a tragedy was averted and is driven by awe, mystery and gratitude.
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Inyoung and Chris