
Good morning.
We’re covering new revelations of 
Six internal documents obtained by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists 
The most significant document is a secret directive on managing the camps that describes their inner workings: round-the-clock video surveillance to prevent escapes, a scoring system for inmates to determine whether they would be released, and blanket secrecy, including barring employees from bringing in mobile phones.
The documents were provided by Uighur overseas networks and scrutinized for authenticity by dozens of journalists in 14 countries. They add to the revelations from 
On Sunday, Prime Minister Boris Johnson presented the Conservative Party’s agenda ahead of Britain’s elections on Dec. 12, steering an unsurprising course toward a swift Brexit and offering a spending plan far less expansive than Labour’s.
He aims to convert fed-up Labour voters who back Brexit, notably in the struggling Midlands and north of England. They reviled the Tories for the economic woes they faced under Margaret Thatcher, but their seething anger is now directed at the lawmakers who have failed to deliver a divorce from the European Union. 
In Ashfield, one of the districts that Mr. Johnson has targeted, our London bureau chief, 
LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton, the world’s 
The $16.7 billion acquisition would be a record in the luxury sector, and could be announced today. 
The deal would make LVMH a major player in the so-called hard luxury sector (things like watches and jewelry), adding to its purchase of Bulgari in 2011. It also gives the French group its most significant beachhead in the American market.
Tiffany’s signature blue boxes are recognizable around the world, and the company’s Fifth Avenue flagship occupies a singular, romantic place in the American landscape. 
Two crashes of the new 737 Max jet focused attention 
“The Boeing issue was an absolute godsend for Lion Air,” an aviation safety expert said. “It means Lion Air doesn’t have to deal with what is clearly failure after failure after failure and make the changes needed.”
The Davis Cup, one of the premiere events in men’s tennis, was overhauled this year. It hasn’t been seamless. 
Founded in 1900, the tournament evolved over the years, but urgency for change had been building. The moment came after the International Tennis Federation sold the rights to Kosmos, a Spanish investment firm whose president is Gerard Piqué, the Spanish soccer star. 
The changes condensed the elite World Group from four rounds of five best-of-five-set matches into two rounds with an intense finals week involving 18 teams playing best-of-three-set matches in a single location. This year, that’s Madrid — where Spain happened to make its way into the final against Canada. 
At least until Spain won last night. 
You can’t say the organizers are unresponsive. Last week, after a U.S. doubles team’s match against Italy 
That’s it for this briefing. ¡Felicidades España!
— Andrea