
LONDON — A “hostage,” a search for explosives, heaps of royal jewels and 
The restart of government business on Monday started with a speech by Queen Elizabeth II, a significant ceremonial duty that set out the government’s agenda. It paved the way for Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s attempts to navigate the 
Hours of royal pomp and stagecraft played out in the halls of Parliament as the queen and her entourage made an elaborate guest appearance at Britain’s government buildings.
The opening was rife with ceremony and symbolism, all of it steeped in history — with some elements dating back to the Middle Ages. Here is a guide. 
Some elements of Parliament’s reopening happen behind the scenes, including a ceremonial search of the cellars of government buildings for explosives. 
Before the queen’s arrival, her guards, decked out in royal red, trekked down to the cellars, gas lamps in hand. Based on historical precedent, the tradition is a nod to the failed 
Then there is the hostage taking.
A member of Parliament was ceremonially held hostage in Buckingham Palace while the queen visits Westminster, just in case the lawmakers decided not to return her. 
This is rooted in the 1600s, when the relationship between Parliament and the monarchy was particularly fraught under Charles I. (He was eventually beheaded at the end of a civil war.)
The queen paraded from her home in Buckingham Palace through the streets of London to the government buildings at Westminster in a horse-drawn carriage escorted by the Household Cavalry, who serve as her mounted bodyguards. 
The Imperial State Crown, the Cap of Maintenance and the Great Sword of State arrived in their own carriage.
The monarch pulled up to a special passageway — a looming archway known as the Sovereign’s Entrance — that’s reserved just for her.
Then it was time for a costume change. The monarch headed into the elaborate Robing Room, and emerged wearing the Robe of State, an 18-foot red velvet cape. 
Typically, she would also wear the Imperial State Crown, encrusted with 2,868 diamonds and hundreds of other jewels, including 17 sapphires, 11 emeralds and 269 pearls. Think bling.
It must be heavy, particularly for the 93-year-old monarch. That may be part of the reason she wore the smaller Diamond Diadem instead, though the Imperial State Crown was placed beside her. 
Once fully kitted out, she led a procession on the arm of her son Prince Charles through the Royal Gallery, packed with 600 guests, to the chamber of the House of Lords. The Great Sword of State and the Cap of Maintenance, symbols of sovereign power and authority, were carried in front of the queen by two peers. The queen then sat on the throne in the Lords’ Chamber and waited for her remaining audience to arrive.
Sarah Clarke, the jauntily dressed House of Lords official known as the Usher of the Black Rod, named for the black stick that she wields, was then sent from the Lords’ Chamber to summon the lawmakers in the House of Commons. 
On approach, the speaker of the House of Commons then — ceremoniously, of course — slammed the door in her face. 
This tradition, which dates from the English Civil War of the 1600s, symbolizes the lawmaking body’s independence from the monarchy. After three strikes on the door, Black Rod — who was appointed Lady Usher in November 2017 and took up her duties early the following year — was let in, along with a procession of lawmakers, 
Accompanying her was the sergeant-at-arms, whose role dates from the 1400s, 
Then it was time for the main event. 
From atop a throne in the House of Lords, the queen set out the agenda and legislative policies of Mr. Johnson’s Conservative Party, typically a formality. She spoke around 11:30 a.m. local time.
The Sovereign’s Throne — elaborately carved wood, gilded, set with crystals and upholstered in royal red velvet — was constructed and designed in 1847. It is based on a throne from 1308 that sits nearby in Westminster Abbey. 
The speech, and the aftermath, promised to be anything but routine.
Mr. Johnson lost his majority in Parliament in September after 
So members of Parliament are now likely to pounce on the government’s road map and deny him an affirmative vote.