
With school out of session and those vacation plans to Europe tentatively approved by the boss, summer is a prime season for international travel.
Travel to the European Union by U.S. citizens 
If that happens on your next trip, you might be able to take advantage of a little-known policy, 
But before you call the airline or type out a tersely worded tweet, you should know that your trip may not be covered by the regulation.
“If an airline is able to put you on a connecting flight or another nonstop flight under the threshold, then technically they don’t owe you anything,” said Jamie Larounis, founder of travel blog 
Here’s what you should know:
First, it’s helpful to know that the type of compensation you can receive depends on the nature of your delay or cancellation. If your flight was delayed by fewer than three hours, then you aren’t covered under the rule. Also, if your flight was delayed or canceled for “extraordinary circumstances,” like severe weather or political unrest, then it isn’t covered either.
Airlines generally have flight compensation information located on their websites (though you may have to look closely to find it). The airlines, according to the legislation, are required to inform passengers of their rights.
When you file the claim with your airline or through a watchdog agency such as 
To be eligible for compensation, your flight must be on an E.U. airline only if you’re flying into an E.U. country. But if your flight originated in, or if you’re traveling within, the E.U., then you are also covered under the regulation regardless of the airline.
For example, if Air France canceled your flight from Paris to Chicago for mechanical issues, then you would be covered under the regulation because the trip originated in an E.U. country and the flight is on an E.U. airline. However, if your American Airlines flight traveling from Dallas to Rome was delayed, then it wouldn’t be considered eligible for compensation because American isn’t an E.U. carrier, even though the flight terminated in an E.U. country.
Technically, you’re entitled to be reimbursed for your journey within seven days. But patience is key — you might have to follow up with your airline by calling or sending a message on Twitter or Facebook.
Before filing for compensation, airlines may also offer you perks like free miles or travel vouchers instead of what they are legally obligated to provide you — money. Ultimately, you should decide what’s best for you and your travel plans. You’re entitled to cash, but you may be able to receive airline miles or upgrades to business or first class, depending on availability, for the inconvenience. Once the reimbursement has been processed, the airline will pay you in cash, check or by bank transfer.
Until Britain formally exits the European Union, the country — and its airlines — is still subject to the E.U. 261 legislation. Flights on U.K. carriers including British Airways and Virgin Atlantic must comply with the rule until Britain leaves the E.U., but it’s unclear what will happen after the Brexit deadline.
Third-party companies like 
“The airline has to verify the flight, verify why it was delayed and verify that you were on it. The intermediaries have some legal power to expedite that process,” said Mr. Larounis.
The regulation does not specify a blanket statute of limitations for compensation. Each country in the E.U. decides how far back a claim can be filed. In Germany, for example, the statute of limitations is six years.