
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning,
We start today with reaction to 
Current and former U.S. diplomats and military officials were cautiously optimistic on Monday about the framework for a deal to end the 17-year war against the Taliban in Afghanistan. But they questioned whether a power-sharing arrangement could be found, and 
An intelligence assessment from 2017 said a complete withdrawal of American troops from Afghanistan would lead to an attack on the U.S. within two years. Aides have used the report to try to convince President Trump that a residual American force must remain in the country. 
The Justice Department 
American officials said they would request the extradition of the executive, Meng Wanzhou, from Canada before a Wednesday deadline. 
Huawei said today that it was innocent of the charges, but neither the company nor the Chinese government 
The nine Democrats and eight Republicans 
The lawmakers have until Feb. 15 to reach a compromise over President Trump’s call for $5.7 billion for a wall. The president has said that without an agreement, he would use emergency powers to fund the wall. 
After decades of resistance to sports gambling, team owners and state officials are laying the groundwork for it — with potentially huge implications.
The Times Magazine 
We also have 
As the British Parliament prepares to vote on proposed amendments to Prime Minister Theresa May’s Plan B for Brexit, retailers are warning that a no-deal withdrawal from the European Union could lead to 
Some entrepreneurs are offering survival-themed products, 
The fears recall 
The world didn’t end, of course. But a 
“Even those of us who have not filled the bathtub with emergency water, withdrawn extra cash from the bank and stocked up on food will be entering the new millennium sobered by the awareness that unknown problems of our own making are an enduring part of existence.”
That’s it for this briefing. 
If the cold weather has you wondering about climate change, 
See you next time.
— Chris