
Good morning. 
We’re covering today’s 
The Democratic-controlled House of Representatives is 
On the eve of a momentous vote, 
The strikes that began in France two weeks ago have severely disrupted transit across the nation, particularly in Paris. But how fed up are frazzled commuters, exactly? That’s a key question — 
The crowds, the delays, the interminable gridlock: It’s all part of what our Paris bureau chief calls “a tug of war” for public support between the striking public sector workers determined to preserve France’s 70-year-old pension system and a centrist government bent on overhauling it.
The European Central Bank’s 2014 move to push a benchmark interest rate below zero eventually helped the eurozone rebound from years of slow growth. But that also made homeownership increasingly unaffordable for most Europeans, and pushed the working class farther from urban centers by driving up rents.
Now, as valuations in some parts of Europe return or exceed where they were before the Continent’s debt crisis a decade ago, 
Last week’s British election “
What’s clear is that the Conservative Party won by its biggest margin since Margaret Thatcher’s landslide victory of 1987 — a result that Prime Minister Boris Johnson described as a “huge great stonking mandate” to take Britain out of the European Union.
But it’s still a mystery what kind of trading relationship Mr. Johnson intends to pursue with Britain’s largest neighbor: a “soft” Brexit that includes a closer long-term trading partnership, or a “hard” Brexit that ends in a divorce without close ties. One clue may lie in whom he chooses for his new cabinet early next year.
After visiting a homeless camp in Oakland last year, a United Nations official compared it to the slums of Brazil, Mexico and Pakistan, saying many residents had “no access to toilets or showers and a constant fear of being cleaned off the streets.”
Two Times journalists later 
The president is 
The legislation tackles a wide range of issues. The lawmakers are working to accomplish as much as possible before they head to holiday recess on Friday — spending bills on Tuesday, impeachment on Wednesday, sweeping revisions to the North American trade pact on Thursday.
It’s the threat of a costly government shutdown, coupled with the desire to leave on time with some notable legislative accomplishments, that is pushing the two sides closer together.
Members of Congress have jokingly compared the flurry of seemingly random legislative demands, like raising the tobacco purchase age to 21, to adding a couple of extra ornaments on the Christmas tree.
Some called it the last train leaving the station.
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time. 
— Mike