
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering 
The government acknowledged on Wednesday that it 
A government spokesman said Mr. Cheng was being held under a 15-day administrative detention, without citing specific allegations.
His seizure, in the midst of Hong Kong’s biggest political crisis in decades, added to fears that the authorities in mainland China were attempting to intimidate supporters of the protests in Hong Kong, though it was still unclear if Mr. Cheung took part in the demonstrations.
Prime Minister Boris Johnson set off on 
Ahead of a potentially chaotic no-deal Brexit on Oct. 31, Mr. Johnson needs President Trump’s help to cushion the economic impact. But he can ill afford to appear too chummy, given Mr. Trump’s unpopularity among both Europeans and Britons.
On Wednesday in Berlin, his first stop, Chancellor Angela Merkel effectively challenged Mr. Johnson to produce a detailed, practical solution within 30 days to avoid a hard Brexit.
The Trump administration unveiled a new regulation that would abolish a 
The regulation, which must be approved by a federal judge, would also let the White House set standards for conditions at centers. It is expected to be immediately challenged in court.
The Trump administration imposed sanctions on three Chinese nationals — Fujing Zheng, Guanghua Zheng and Xiaobing Yan — who were charged with 
Their operations directly contributed “to the crisis of opioid addiction, overdoses and death in the United States,” the Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control said in a statement. The three remain at large.
Schools across the country still teach how to calculate dizzying sums by sliding tiny beads along rods in wooden frames, and at least 43,000 students take advanced lessons. Many practitioners sit for exams and the elite take part in national competitions, like the 
“Unlike the computer or calculator, you have to watch the movement of the beads with your eyes, and then think with your brain and make a move with your fingers,” one expert said. “It’s a very foundational learning process.”
And for those shopping for TVs, here’s what you need to know about a new feature, 
Two major fast-food chains, Chick Fil-A and Popeyes, are waging 
We went looking into the history books to see what everyone is all aflutter about. 
While many cuisines feature fried chicken, the American version drew from the 
Cookbooks written by white Southerners circulated the recipes, and after the Civil War, freed black entrepreneurs, especially women, 
The dish 
Who first sandwiched fried chicken in bread may never be known — one writer found 
That’s it for this briefing. In case you’re inspired, 
— Alisha