
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning,
We start today with 
Air travelers should be prepared for further delays today. President Trump grounded all Boeing 737 Max 8 and Max 9 aircraft, reversing a decision by aviation regulators after a deadly crash in Ethiopia. 
The fallout from the college admissions scandal announced by federal prosecutors has exposed an array of corrupt and illegal practices. But it has also shed light on 
“Is that unfair? That the privileged can pay?” asked the managing director of an admissions consulting company in New York. “Yes. But that’s how the world works.”
Lawmakers want a plan to withdraw Britain from the European Union — but not the one offered by Prime Minister Theresa May.
After twice rejecting Mrs. May’s Brexit proposal, Parliament on Wednesday 
A federal judge on Wednesday 
In sentencing Mr. Manafort on two conspiracy counts, Judge Amy Berman Jackson of U.S. District Court in Washington closed out the highest-profile prosecution brought by the special counsel, Robert Mueller.
Mr. Manafort, 69, received a 47-month sentence in a related case last week.
On Sept. 15, 1942, a volley of Japanese torpedoes in the Pacific sank an American aircraft carrier, the U.S.S. Wasp. For decades, the families of those aboard could only wonder where the wreckage had landed. 
It took a billionaire backer, an epic hunt and a flash of insight 
Also, a new dating app tries connecting people through 
The Times recently published a story about 
One of the first on record is the Bow Street Horse Patrol in London, established in the mid-18th century 
These days, mounted officers are often used for crowd control and easy navigation through traffic (mobility and sightlines from horseback are better than on foot or in a car). 
In comparison to foot patrols, the report said, “Mounted police were observed to generate over six times as many instances of casual public engagements — such as greetings and brief exchanges — over equivalent time periods in neighborhood patrols.”
— Chris