
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering 
Lawmakers on Capitol Hill spent hours grilling the special counsel, Robert Mueller, about his investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 election and whether President Trump obstructed justice.
Mr. Mueller also offered stark warnings about the threat of foreign interference in American elections. “I hope this is not the new normal,” he said. “But I fear it is.” Watch 
Beijing suggested on Wednesday that it was 
The warning came in Beijing’s new defense strategy white paper, and the chief spokesman for the Ministry of National Defense cited protests on Sunday outside the Chinese government’s liaison office in Hong Kong, which protesters painted with graffiti. 
Analysts said that the warning could inflame, rather than calm, the underlying grievances driving the protests in Hong Kong.
According to law, the military can intervene in “local affairs” only when requested by Hong Kong’s leaders.
The former foreign secretary and two-term mayor of London 
“After three years of unfounded self-doubt, it is time to change the record,” he said in a speech outside 10 Downing Street, shortly after meeting with Queen Elizabeth II. 
Mr. Johnson, a high-profile backer of Brexit, reiterated his view that Britain must leave the E.U. by Oct. 31 one way or another — “no ifs or buts.”
Justin Sun, a wealthy Chinese cryptocurrency celebrity, paid $4.6 million to have a charity lunch with Warren Buffett on Wednesday in San Francisco — a rendezvous that he was counting down to on social media. On Monday, Mr. Sun postponed the lunch, citing health concerns. 
His decision 
When the American astronaut died in 2012 at 82 after heart surgery, his sons contended that he had received incompetent post-surgical care that cost him his life. The hospital defended the care but secretly paid the family $6 million, a settlement that divided the Armstrong family.
The news of 
We also have 
Lawmakers questioning former special prosecutor Robert Mueller on Wednesday 
Double negatives — commonly defined as a negative statement containing two negative elements — have long been abhorred by grammarians. 
Nevertheless, they are a popular rhetorical device: 
Other languages — including Persian, Russian, Polish, and Hebrew — don’t have a problem with the double negative. The French use them for emphasis, and in Chinese they make an even stronger affirmative. 
But 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Alisha