
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering 
Boris Johnson doubled down on his promise to get Brexit done by Oct. 31, deal or no deal, after 
Mr. Johnson and Mrs. May will visit Queen Elizabeth II today to formalize the transition. 
With the task of extracting the country from the E.U. now moving into the hands of a Brexit hard-liner and one of the country’s most polarizing politicians, Conservative ministers have begun an exodus from the government.
Li Peng, the former Chinese premier who was derided for his role in the bloody Tiananmen Square crackdown in 1989, 
Two of our veteran China hands reconstruct his life and career. Born in 1928 to Communist revolutionaries in the early years of the Chinese civil war,
In May 1989, he announced the imposition of martial law in response to the pro-democracy protests that had taken over the heart of Beijing. The question hanging over his legacy: what personal responsibility did he bear when the army opened fire on the demonstrators, killing hundreds if not more.
South Korea said its air force jets 
South Korea said that during Russia and China’s joint air patrol in the region, the Russian warplane breached its airspace near a cluster of disputed islands, called Dokdo in South Korea and Takeshima in Japan. 
Japan said it had scrambled jets in response to the air patrol and lodged formal complaints against both Russia and South Korea. 
A deadly cathedral bombing in January on the southern island of Jojo was 
The couple went to Turkey in 2016, hoping to cross the border into Syria to reach the territory held by the Islamic State, but were instead arrested in
The case underscores warnings from terrorism officials and experts about the growing influence of the Islamic State and associated militants in Southeast Asian nations, particularly Indonesia, Malaysia and the Philippines. 
Gulalai Ismail, pictured at center above in January, is one of Pakistan’s best-known women’s rights crusaders. For speaking out about forced marriages and gang rapes, she has been accused by the country of inciting rebellion, and for the past two months, practically no one has seen her. 
Pakistan has been
And our Parenting site examines in vitro fertilization, and 
There’s a lot more to Robert S. Mueller III than he’ll be sharing with lawmakers on Capitol Hill today. And some of it is kind of fun.
For instance, his nickname in the intelligence community. When he was serving a 12-year stint as F.B.I. director, he was dubbed 
That “S.” is for Swan, inherited from Grace Swan, his great-great-grandmother (on his father’s side). 
The Three Sticks moniker — bestowed during an era when Mr. Mueller often took on organized crime — has spawned T-shirts, a parody Twitter account and other memes.
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Alisha