
“Fill out those worksheets by Monday, or I’ll Brexit the lot of you,” Aine (Aisling Bea) tells her English language class in the first episode of “This Way Up.”
Created by Bea, an Irish comedian and actress, the show is set in London and applies this irreverent, unflinching lens to all aspects of Aine’s life: Her recent nervous breakdown, her dependence on her high-powered sister Shona (Sharon Horgan), the uncertainty of the Brexit era. Horgan is also an executive producer, and the show shares a tone with her relationship comedy “Catastrophe.” (Both were also produced by Channel 4.) 
In typically tantalizing British fashion, the first season — which is available on Hulu — has just six 20-minute episodes, and features tight observational humor and a talented cast that includes 
This is Bea’s first TV show, and in a phone conversation in London she described her and Horgan as “little jack-in-the-boxes,” who get knocked down but always pop back up again. She also discussed improving access to conversations about mental health, how writing about her father’s suicide informed “This Way Up” and how she hopes her show is like “Love Island.” These are edited excerpts from the conversation. 
Sharon and I met playing sisters in the pilot of “Dead Boss,” a BBC Three sitcom that aired in 2012. Then for two years we worked on a show called “Delilah,” and it was like, “Yay yay yay!” And then “Derry Girls” came along, and they were both group shows set in Ireland that Channel 4 had commissioned, and our commission went away. Understandably, since it’s one of my maybe favorite comedies ever.
Then a few years ago, I was just bored at home when I was still living with my sister, and I wrote out a rough outline of two sisters talking. Sharon liked it, and we knocked out the rest in about 12 hours, having spent two years writing “Delilah.”
This summer we found out that we sold “Delilah” to 
Even as you say that I’m slightly emotional. It’s very much a love letter to sisters generally; it’s the idea of soul mates.
In the show, I wanted to explore what happens when you have a codependent relationship that’s not totally always healthy, and then that person’s not there. If you don’t have your people, what happens? What negative behavior? When you’re not totally well, what few things pulling away will completely floor you?
It’s the one thing I did read up on loads, that just seemed to be coming at me in magazines and women’s health articles and stuff like that, and as we said, the show started off being about the sisters. But the core thing I kept finding was loneliness, and with every character in the show I would go, what’s their loneliness?
There is something about loneliness. It’s the total opposite of what we project on Instagram. I hope I get a Series 2; that’s what I would be exploring more.
I love seeing people interact. That’s where you see how things affect people, more than on the big grand level.
I went to drama school at 
The idea of immigrants closing the door behind them I find very interesting as well. It’s just so messy. Even politically, there’s no right answer. 
I do know what it’s like to be an outsider in different countries. I’ve been an Irish person in President Obama’s America, and then I got my third Visa quite recently, under President Trump. And suddenly the questions started changing. All of a sudden they need you to put your Twitter and Instagram handle down. Why does the American government need to know that? It’s getting harder and harder to make jokes about it all.
I think there is more space for more different types of voices. The one thing that feels really lovely, is that I want to watch my show. I also know there will be people tuning in thinking, “Is this comedy?” And that’s probably O.K. There’s enough space. Whereas, 15 years ago, when there were only four channels, you’d have to beat to a similar drum, because it was too risky in terms of advertisers and space.
With women, for so long we were eye-rolling, sighing, perfect things and we were either virgins or mothers or sluts. Everyone wants to be seen with all their complexities, and that comes with as many different types of stories as possible. And that feels like a relief in many ways and I think that next step is having that intersectionality. That’s where we have to make sure we keep the door open for other people as well.
What I constantly find myself leaning toward is immigrants and immigrant stories. And I didn’t even realize, but on “This Way Up” 70 percent of the cast is either an immigrant or the child of an immigrant. I love hearing people talk about it in the same way some people can’t get enough of hearing women’s stories.
I toyed around with the idea of some kind of diagnosis. There was a scene in a draft where I showed her taking medication. And then I realized with pills, people need to know “what it is,” because then it can be fixed. And I don’t want it to be that easy. Because it’s not. Getting better and staying better is like saying to someone, as long as you eat carrots you won’t get fat, if you struggle with your weight. And that’s not it at all: Maintaining your physical health is about having a community around you, education about food, how much money you have, where you live.
And it’s the exact same with mental health. Access to mental health is extremely privileged and moneyed. And what I want to do with the TV show is to make something technically free to watch — well, in America you need your Hulu subscription — that brings these themes to people in a way that doesn’t feel too distant from them. You have to be near the door to hear it creak open.
First of all, about a year and a half ago, 
I’d like to think that it’s a testament to my writing that people might believe it’s real, rather than pulling away from the craft, which I’ve worked really hard on. And of course, like Aine, I have a dead father, one mother, one sister and a British-Indian brother-in-law. But those characters aren’t them.
Not everything has to be like, here’s all of my truths. You can allow yourself to be, as Peter Andre called it, a “
I found it hard to watch other comedies. One time, I was watching a show and I said to Sharon, “Oh god, do you think that story line’s going to be too similar to our show?” and she said, don’t watch any more, you’re going to drive yourself nuts.
My brain needed a release from seriousness. I watched all of “Real Housewives.” My wind down has been “Love Island.” I got totally addicted. Just like on the show, we’ve all been the rejected one, the one left behind, the idiot, the one who’s confident. It’s the same with my show: You can be all things, you can be the idiot and the woke one. I’m in this WhatsApp group with Lena Dunham, Jessie Ware, Richard Curtis and his daughter, Scarlett Curtis, and some other people, and all we do is discuss “Love Island.”