
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering 
The acting White House chief of staff 
Mr. Mulvaney later tried to reverse his comments, saying that “there was absolutely no quid pro quo.” 
His initial remarks, which undercut 
Mr. Mulvaney also announced that 
The leader of the Syrian Kurdish fighters said today that the Turkish military and its proxies 
Shelling continued in the Syrian border town of Ras al-Ain, and gunfire could be heard by journalists just across the border in Turkey.
The cease-fire was part of 
Prime Minister Boris Johnson, 
The deal faced an immediate hurdle when the Democratic Unionist Party of Northern Ireland refused to support it. But Mr. Johnson appears to be betting that enough lawmakers are fed up with the process to view this deal, however imperfect, as better than any alternative.
With his company under fire for enabling the spread of disinformation, 
“People having the power to express themselves at scale is a new kind of force in the world,” Mr. Zuckerberg said during a speech in Washington in which he invoked Frederick Douglass, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., the Vietnam War and the First Amendment.
Above, from left: the actress Rachel Weisz, the artist Nick Cave, the architect Shigeru Ban and the fashion designer Nicolas Ghesquière.
The four are featured in 
“Scam or Not” also takes on myths about 
Don’t watch the tape.
That was the takeaway for moviegoers who saw the horror film “The Ring,” starring Naomi Watts and directed by Gore Verbinski, which 
A remake of the 1997 Japanese film “Ringu,” the movie made more than $249 million worldwide, a haul that encouraged more English-language remakes of Asian horror films — and two more American “Ring” movies.
The plot centers on a mysterious videotape that curses its viewers, leaving them with seven days to live.
The Japanese original, directed by Hideo Nakata, was based on a famous ghost story set at 
Mr. Nakata’s 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Chris