
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering 
For decades, the agency had an informant in the Russian government who eventually gained access to the highest level of the Kremlin.
The source, who became one of the C.I.A.’s most important and highly protected assets, was instrumental to the agency’s conclusion that President Vladimir Putin orchestrated Russia’s interference in the U.S. presidential election in 2016.
But when intelligence officials revealed details about the election interference, 
Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross 
The agency, 
In an extraordinary breakdown of protocol, opposition lawmakers shouted, “Shame on you!” early this morning as 
The suspension was the result of earlier political maneuvering by Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who has suffered what one of our correspondents in London called “one of the most abysmal starts any British leader has ever endured.”
Mr. Johnson, who has yet to win a vote as prime minister, was stymied on Monday as lawmakers 
Turkey has for years welcomed millions of migrants fleeing the war in Syria, but President Recep Tayyip Erdogan 
The other powers involved in the war have not wholly supported the idea, but Mr. Erdogan has said that, without access to the territory, he would “open the gates” for refugees to head into Europe.
The 79-year-old became a star with Ike Turner in her 20s, escaped his abuse in her 30s, fought her way up the pop charts in her 40s and toured the world through her 60s. Now she would like to sleep in.
“I don’t sing. I don’t dance. I don’t dress up,” 
And skin care masks aren’t just for faces. (
Jerry West, the former Los Angeles Lakers star, was 
Mr. Trump simply called him Jerry, but around the N.B.A. he’s known as “the Logo.”
In 1969, J. Walter Kennedy, the N.B.A. commissioner, asked a brand consultant, Alan Siegel, to come up with a new logo modeled after Major League Baseball’s minimalist red-and-blue one. Mr. Siegel 
Fifty years later, the result endures — though the N.B.A. has never acknowledged it.
Mr. West, who has one N.B.A. championship as a player and eight as an executive, would really prefer not to have the attention, or the logo.
“It’s flattering,” 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Chris