
Good morning.
We’re covering
Financial jitters were felt worldwide after new data 
The ominous data sent 
“We apologize for our behavior but we are just too scared,” read one post that was widely distributed on social media. “Our police shot us, government betrayed us, social institutions failed us. Please help us.”
The airport said it would limit terminal access to ticketed passengers and workers. 
Parliament is set to reconvene in September, not long 
Lawmakers would then have 14 days to try to pull together a new government. If they cannot, the prime minister is then supposed to call a general election.
But reports that Mr. Johnson might simply refuse to step down have set off a debate about 
The police officers 
They had tried to serve a narcotics warrant, the authorities said. Other officers were being treated for “non-gunshot injuries,” Sgt. Eric Gripp of the Philadelphia Police Department said on 
Shortly after 9:30 p.m., Sergeant Gripp said two officers who had been inside the house had been safely evacuated, but that the gunman remained holed up.
In August of 1619, a ship appeared near Point Comfort, a port in the British colony of Virginia. It carried more than 20 enslaved Africans, who were sold to the colonists. America was not yet America, but this, The Times Magazine argues, was the moment that it began. 
The 1619 Project is a major initiative from The Times about how slavery has shaped the United States in the 400 years since. 
On another subject: If your device is seized by ransomware, Europol, the E.U.’s law enforcement agency, has 
Seventy-two years ago today, India was freed from British rule.
Most people know that Mohandas Gandhi played a major role in the country’s struggle for independence. But so did 
The queen, or rani, was an unconventional leader. She could read and write — very rare for a woman in that era — and she refused to abide by the norms of purdah, which concealed women behind curtains or veils, when speaking with her advisers and British officials.
She was widowed without a natural-born heir, and the East India Company used that as pretext to annex her kingdom. So she fled to the nearby state of Gwalior, trained an army and led it into battle against the British. She was killed in action in 1858.
In India, she is immortalized in history books, movies, songs and even nursery rhymes. And in the 1940s, the Indian National Army formed an all-female unit to help in the battle for freedom. It was named the Rani of Jhansi regiment.
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Melina