
The premise of “
Turtleneck Man was a youngish audience member whose lantern jaw and realtor’s haircut were complemented by a charcoal turtleneck and one of the most remarkable “Question Time” questions in a while. He began with a defense of Prime Minister Boris Johnson and his Brexit negotiations, despite the fact that they had not yet resolved complications like how a Northern Ireland that wasn’t part of the European Union could maintain an open border with a Republic of Ireland that was. And then, with a nonchalance that suggested he had hit upon a solution so far elusive to everyone else, Turtleneck Man offered the following: “Why doesn’t it, you know, this is going to sound crazy, but Ireland being referred to as Ireland — the island of Ireland — why don’t we try and just get that as an island again. And then we can carry on with our own thing.”
Video of this moment 
There is a temptation to focus on Turtleneck Man as a person: his tilted head, his wry smile, his chirpy obliviousness to the loud booing that envelops his final sentiments. Here is the platonic ideal of cheerful entitlement, the holotype of every guy who has ever raised a hand in class to proffer “more of a comment than a question.” But it’s more apt to regard him as a symptom of a deeper trend within both British and American conservatism.
For the United Kingdom, it’s the pursuit of a nebulous thing called Brexit that has acted like a black hole, sucking every other thought from its proponents’ heads, prompting a creaking, data-allergic lean away from every value they once claimed to cherish. What is most astonishing about Turtleneck Man’s attitude toward Northern Ireland is that it is no longer controversial. It’s hard to think of a more abiding value of the Conservative Party than preserving the union of Britain and Northern Ireland — its full name is literally the Conservative and Unionist Party — and yet in June, 
Turtleneck Man is, however, less a product of place than of time. In 2019, his attitude thrives on both sides of the Atlantic. The American conservative establishment initially balked at Donald Trump, too, before creeping to his defense — jettisoning, along the way, every moral precept held within their movement. Now we see Washington hawks asking if it’s really so terrible if a few ISIS sympathizers escape captivity and recreant evangelists arguing that it’s of no concern whether Trump has paid to hide affairs with adult-film stars.
As much as we Irish recreationally hate on Britain, scratch some hidden part of our psyche and you might find a grudging, silent sense that the British were, if nothing else, outwardly consistent and slow to lose face. Similarly, the office of the president, for all its foreign escapades and repressive actions, still seemed to hold some nugget of Sorkinesque dignity or moral traction, even if just for show. Now, in Washington as in Westminster, all such pretense has been abandoned. It’s taken for granted that the moral and philosophical rubrics of conservatism can be shed in pursuit of the basest immediate goals.
Unfortunately, not all immediate goals are created equal. Brexit requires unbraiding a centuries-deep history of entanglements, causing major disruption to the country as a whole and Northern Ireland in particular. Statesmen of a more sober age might urge the public to consider these threats to the common order. The British government prefers to insist that there would be nothing complex about Brexit if only the E.U. and Ireland would get out of the way. Like a toddler struggling with object permanence, the U.K. acts as if other countries exist only when it chooses to look at them. Its foreign policy is gripped by the fatal colonial delusion that when the people of other nations lay down their heads each night, it is the thought of England’s happiness that sends them pleasantly to sleep.
All of which means that for many, Turtleneck Man is something more specific still: a dictionary-perfect case of “tansplaining,” a neologism 
It is not reasonable, or even desirable, to demand that every person becomes a diligent historian. Joyce himself had an uneasy sense of the past: “History,” his “Ulysses” surrogate Stephen Dedalus complained, “is a nightmare from which I am trying to awake.” To arise from the shadow of the past is an admirable notion, but you wonder if the British, turtlenecks or no, should try to remember their nightmares a little more clearly.