
LONDON — A monitor at London’s City Hall has referred Prime Minister Boris Johnson of Britain to a police watchdog for a possible investigation of claims that he unduly favored an American entrepreneur while mayor of the city, intensifying a politically risky scandal as he faces 
The official said the claims about 
The government’s response was fierce and dismissive: A cabinet minister from Mr. Johnson’s Conservative Party, Theresa Villiers, told the BBC on Saturday that it was “an obviously politicized complaint.”
Several British news outlets earlier quoted an unnamed government source as calling the referral “
Both Mr. Johnson and Ms. Arcuri have denied any wrongdoing.
The referral does not necessarily mean the prime minister will be investigated. The Independent Office for Police Conduct 
But it added in a statement, “This will take time to thoroughly assess and consider before any decision is taken as to whether it is necessary to investigate this matter.”
A City Hall spokesman did not immediately respond to requests for comment on Saturday.
The letter said she was legally obligated to refer Mr. Johnson to the police watchdog because she had been made aware of accusations that, if true, could amount to an offense of 
“During this time it has been brought to my attention that you maintained a friendship with Ms. Jennifer Arcuri, and as a result of that friendship allowed Ms. Arcuri to participate in trade missions and receive sponsorship monies in circumstances where she and her companies could not have expected otherwise to receive those benefits,” the letter said. 
But the letter added that it was not the monitoring officer’s role “to investigate or determine whether any offense has been committed. Similarly, I do not investigate the veracity of the allegations or whether they are substantiated.” 
The letter did not mention who had passed on the accusations to the monitoring officer.
On Tuesday, 
Ms. Arcuri, a former model, was 27 when her path first crossed
According to 
A subsequent explanation for the visits — that the mayor had been receiving technology lessons — prompted mockery 
One of Ms. Arcuri’s businesses, Hacker House, was awarded a central-government grant of 100,000 pounds, about $120,000, in February, before Mr. Johnson became prime minister.
Matt Warman, a junior culture minister, told lawmakers that Mr. Johnson 
Mr. Johnson 
But that has done little to tamp down speculation about Mr. Johnson, whose sometimes turbulent personal life 