
The WikiLeaks founder 
He faces an extradition warrant filed by the U.S., which unsealed an indictment of one count of conspiracy to hack a computer, related to his role in the 2010 release of classified U.S. documents. The charge is narrow, to the relief of press freedom advocates.
In the West, he was seen as 
Protesters’ jubilation, above in Khartoum, was tempered by worries about the military’s assumption of control for what it called 
On the eve of Britain’s (re-)scheduled departure from the European Union, European leaders extended the deadline to the end of October. Above, anti-Brexit protesters outside Parliament on Thursday.
The path ahead still resembles a minefield, our London bureau reports. The choices facing the British Parliament haven’t changed. And the thing exhausted 
Businesses, especially small ones, 
Ron Burkle, a friend of Bill Clinton and major Democratic donor, is in 
Mr. Burkle, who specializes in buying distressed companies, made his initial fortune buying and selling supermarkets in California.
President Barack Obama was one of scores of celebrities and fans who 
Hip-hop luminaries including Snoop Dogg, YG and others spoke at the memorial, and closed with a musical tribute from Stevie Wonder. A procession of the coffin through south Los Angeles is to follow.
One of our reporters went to high school with Nipsey, and wrote about 
In a news conference announcing the arrest of Holden Matthews, 21, authorities emphasized that they had not concluded their investigation into what prompted the attacks, but said that Mr. Matthews played music in a genre sometimes associated with white supremacists — “black metal,” meaning darker than thrash or death metal.
The fires occurred over a 10-day period starting on March 26 in St. Landry Parish, north of Lafayette, destroying churches, including Greater Union Baptist Church in Opelousas, above, that had been around for more than a century and had been the spiritual homes of generations of black families.
Researchers with what’s known as the NASA Twins Study 
The results were disturbing. Mr. Kelly returned with extra genetic mutations and blunted scores on cognition tests. 
And if your head is still spinning over the image of the black hole, our reporter broke it down on a 
As companies and governments gain new powers to follow people across the internet and around the world, The Times is embarking on a monthslong project to explore the technology and where it’s taking us. 
“It seems like a good moment to pause and consider the choices we’ve already made, and the ones that lie ahead,” the editor of our editorial pages explains in 
It’s a question we asked of 15 playwrights as inspiration to develop 
“If you want to change minds, write a great editorial for the Op-Ed page,” Mr. McNally told our reporter. “But if you want to get people to feel differently, reach them through the theater.”
Since Monday, a dog named 
In the early mornings, Cactus makes his rounds at the runners’ tents before trotting to the front of the starting line to take off with the (human) pack. He seems to take affection wherever it is offered.
“I know he’s having the greatest time,” wrote an inn owner from Cactus’s village.
Have a very good night.