
LONDON — It’s rare to find either dementia or older women featuring prominently in mainstream dramas. But in the 
Since her return to acting in 2015, after 23 years as a member of Parliament for the Labour Party, Jackson, a two-time Academy Award winner, hasn’t shirked a challenge. In 2016, she played 
But she hasn’t undertaken a cinematic role since 1992, when she appeared in another television movie: Ken Russell’s “The Secret Life of Arnold Bax.”
“Elizabeth Is Missing,” which premiered on BBC One on Sunday, is based on a 
Through the fog of mental disintegration, Maud looks for clues and keeps seeing characters from the past. Who has disappeared, and how? And how to chart the disappearance of the self?
The film is being rapturously received in Britain.
“It is a harrowing, compelling, unsentimental, altogether magnificent performance,” Lucy Mangan in 
But Jackson played down the adulation during a telephone interview from her home in London. “Everyone is responsible for the whole film,” she said. “You work together.” 
In a wide-ranging conversation, Jackson talked about aging and dementia, the treatment of women in contemporary drama, and Britain’s current politics. Here are edited excerpts from the conversation.
The director, Aisling Walsh, came to see me in New York. I read the script and the book, and they concern issues I have been banging on about for a decade. We are living in a society where no political party, at least in my country, has addressed the issue of how we provide the money to provide the care that an elderly population needs. 
As someone recently said to me, dementia is not a disease of the elderly — it is a disease of the brain that emerges as people live longer.
I saw this problem and the appalling damage it does to families when I was a member of Parliament. In Britain, dementia is still defined by the National Health Service as an incurable disease, and so you have to pay for the care, which is impossible for many. And there is insufficient money being put into research.
So the role coincided with an issue I have long been concerned with. But there are also very few good parts for women, and the older you get, the more they disappear.
What I have observed throughout my entire career is that contemporary dramatists don’t find women that interesting. 
Yes, there have been some steps, but I wouldn’t say we have achieved the place we should have in theater or film. We are rarely the driving contemporary engine for a play. 
And it is still the case that if a woman is a success, she is an exception, and if she is a failure, we are all failures.
I learned the lines!
I did meet one doctor from 
I actually haven’t had anyone close to me afflicted by this. You just try to see the world through your character’s eyes, and you don’t judge her actions.
What I found astonishing when the #MeToo movement broke was the pretense that nobody knew this was going on. You don’t have to be in the theater to know that every woman experiences this at some time. In England and Wales, two women die at their partners’s hands 
Yes, it’s a good thing that these actresses came forward. But a whole lot of publicity around #MeToo is not the issue — we need the legal structures that make protection adequate for women. 
It was an issue that regularly came up in the House of Commons. And every woman I personally came across who was suffering abuse blamed herself. That’s something to think about.
I do have a voice — I can vote. 
I left because I had done 23 years and I felt it was time. But it’s a total mess, isn’t it? 
I am divided about Brexit. Personally I am against it, but the country did vote to come out and we are still in, which seems like the worst kind of democracy. But to leave under Boris Johnson, or to leave at all, is not in my view a benefit to the country. 
I am hoping we will have a tied situation and we’ll have to have a coalition government. Maybe some different voices can be heard.
I am doing a series with BBC radio, 
Radio is the most beautiful medium to work in. You don’t have to dress up, put on makeup or learn your lines perfectly.
Oh, no. 
But you never know what could come through the door.