
Elon Musk’s rocket company launched 
Astronomers say the Starlink satellites — up to 30,000 of them, based on the regulatory filings — could make it “look as if the whole sky is crawling with stars.” In particular, they may make it difficult to detect hazardous asteroids that are best seen during twilight.
The Times obtained a draft of the E.P.A.’s revised regulation, which is headed for White House review. It 
That would preclude the consideration of studies — like those linking mercury from power plants to impaired brain development — that rely on personal health information gathered under confidentiality agreements. Above, contaminated water from a Montana mine. 
President Trump did his part, returning to a mixed welcome in New York to 
We also have a veteran’s account of seeing his friends die in Afghanistan, and 
 
A long-simmering White House feud spilled into the open: John Bolton, the former national security adviser, 
Our Washington reporters 
A police officer shot an antigovernment protester at point-blank range, while across town a man arguing with protesters was set on fire. Both are in the hospital in critical condition. 
Confrontations 
Evo Morales, who resigned after unrelenting protests over a disputed election, said he was the victim of a “coup.” And it’s complicating efforts to hold new elections, with lawmakers set to meet Tuesday morning to figure it out. 
The country has plunged into constitutional crisis: All the top officials who could legally form a caretaker government have resigned. 
Unsavory details have been leaking out about how Russian oligarchs funneled money to Conservative Party politicians, fomenting conspiracy theories and stoking fears that Russia could intervene this time, too, with the aim of securing Brexit and weakening the European Union. 
Hillary Clinton, in London on a book tour with her daughter, Chelsea, criticized Mr. Johnson’s decision in an interview with The Guardian. 
Russia also intervened in elections in Madagascar, 
The New York Mets first baseman, who set a rookie record with 53 homers, is the sixth member of the team to be so honored. 
The target: false promises that a lavish life full of cars, money and women can be yours — for a price. 
Recently, the account targeted a drop-shipping entrepreneur, or middleman for online sales. He said he was a teenager, and showed off what he said was his $8 million penthouse; @BallerBusters found photographs proving that the home was an Airbnb rental.
The anonymous person behind the account also regularly calls out entrepreneurs for showing off fake watches and posing in rented private jets.
Natalie Angier, our Pulitzer Prize-winning science writer, looks at how researchers are racing to create efficient light traps, fabricating materials that look “ever darker, ever flatter, ever more ripped from the void.” 
She goes into the theory and meaning of black, but also discusses the myriad practical 
Have a starry, starry night. 