
The same model of plane crashed off Indonesia in October. Nearly two dozen airlines have now grounded their Boeing 737 Max 8 planes while another dozen are keeping them in operation.
The Federal Aviation Administration said it was monitoring developments but did not order any groundings. American Airlines and Southwest Airlines are among the airlines still flying the 737 Max 8, pictured above.
Ask our reporters about the 737 Max 8 
Most travelers are probably out of luck if they want to switch a flight simply because of the airplane model, but Southwest, which has 34 of the planes in operation, does not charge change fees. Read 
Congress, which controls spending, has not embraced Mr. Trump’s budgets even when Republicans controlled both houses.
Instead, our Washington reporters write, the proposal serves as 
The powerful gun-rights group is 
Now, it’s facing an internal debate over its streaming service, NRATV.
Produced by an ad firm, Ackerman McQueen, NRATV sends out apocalyptic, hard-right messages; warnings of race wars; and, in September, a diatribe against diversity that featured the talking trains on the popular children’s show “Thomas & Friends” in Ku Klux Klan hoods. Above, pictures of the group’s leading figures at its annual meeting and exhibit last year.
Beto O’Rourke is 
Mr. O’Rourke, a former Texas congressman, is making his potential opponents nervous even though he hasn’t demonstrated the kind of intensive preparation — like building national political infrastructure — typical of top-flight presidential campaigns. Above, Mr. O’Rourke carries his son at a border wall protest last month.
And Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, who is running for president, is under scrutiny after revelations that her office may have 
Looting and protests have been seen in parts of the country. And the government declared that today, the fifth day of the outage, would be a public holiday.
Electrical workers say a fire caused the blackout. Experts point to years of underinvestment and mismanagement; the government blames saboteurs. Above, Caracas in the dark.
And speaking of blame, The Times analyzed previously unpublished footage that 
It’s unclear what kind of concessions she can win in the 11th-hour meeting that would prevent Parliament from voting the plan down. The vote comes less than three weeks before the deadline for Britain to leave the E.U. Above, the E.U.’s chief Brexit negotiator kisses Mrs. May’s hand in Strasbourg.
If she loses, Mrs. May has promised to offer a vote on whether Britain should leave the bloc without a deal — a scenario that could brutally upend the country’s economy and one that most lawmakers oppose.
After a fan screamed a racial obscenity at him at a Premier League match in December, he made a pointed Instagram post. 
“It is a stereotype of black people: chains and jewelry, bling and money,” he said.
Musicians with the Chicago Symphony Orchestra 
And our classical music critic, Anthony Tommasini, went to Carnegie Hall, above, for 
Lawrence Ferlinghetti, the poet, publisher, painter, social activist and co-founder of San Francisco’s famed City Lights bookstore, above, is turning 100, and the city is celebrating his legacy.
We took 
Can you dig it?