
And
This exultant 
If you’re asking who gives a rap on Broadway, you clearly haven’t been in that neighborhood since a 
The team behind that work included 
On the night I saw the show, directed by Mr. Kail, the amiable M.C. in chief was Mr. Veneziale. The rest of the cast (which isn’t fixed) included two fellow rappers (
There is also a guest star at each performance. Mine was Mr. Miranda, whom the crowd greeted with the kind of 
Indeed he does. And so does “Freestyle,” 
The enduring appeal of that form lies in its ability to exalt the everyday by endowing it with the pattern of rhythmic song. This is also what the spontaneous, self-created musicians of the 1970s were doing in the Bronx, when rap began its unstoppable spread through this country’s culture.
What distinguishes “Freestyle Love Supreme” from other Broadway songfests is that its numbers spring into 
That means live theater doesn’t get more live than this. “Freestyle” demands that you exist purely in the here-and-now of the show. And to guarantee you do so, it requires that all smartphones (and smartwatches) 
Unmediated experience. How scary. How liberating.
What you see onstage, before the cast arrives, is more or less a tabula rasa. 
Then as the dim stage brightens (
With a silken patter that never stoops to snark or condescension — and an inclusive attention that reaches deep into the mezzanine — Mr. Veneziale asks the audience to feed him words. (There is also a box full of words on slips of paper, to which theatergoers can contribute before the show 
Who knew how malleable and melodic the verb “dribble” could be? Or that there really are rhymes for “meniscus”? Or that any performer possessed the concentration to keep all these words in play for the entire performance?
When the 
The hate objects on the night I saw this show were “jalapeño,” “Brexit” and “living in New York City.” Mr. Ambukdar took jalapeño, and turned the peppery noun into a sweetly scatological lament about indigestion. Mr. Veneziale riffed tartly on Brexit.
Ms. Folds, a newcomer to the team with a singing voice that scales the heights of exasperation, took us on a rhymed excursion through the overcrowded purgatory of Times Square. “Meniscus,” an anatomical term referring to a part of the knee, became the improbable basis for deeply heartfelt love letters to family members (Mr. Miranda’s children; Mr. Ambudkar’s bride).
With 
There are elements of satire throughout, but they are never vicious or sharp-edged. “Freestyle Love Supreme” takes the love part of its title seriously. Any insults exchanged here bring to mind gentle teasing within an affectionate family.
As the rappers turn
At one point, Ms. Mullady enters to perform a beat duet with Mr. Sullivan. The throbbing begins with that ultimate beat-maker, the human heart. The performers enact what looks like an instant surgical heart exchange, so they can share the same rhythm.
That’s a pretty good a metaphor for the blissful achievement of this show. We’ve all been given a transplant of a heart that, as they say, beats as one. And for the show’s all-too-fleeting 85 minutes, it’s possible to believe that rhythm and rhyme are a miracle cure for all that ails us.