
At least five people are dead in the Bahamas after Hurricane Dorian 
Dorian is now inching toward Florida as a Category 2 storm. Forecasts put the hurricane “dangerously close” to the Atlantic Coast, where it is expected to move slowly northward along Georgia and South Carolina. 
What role did climate change play in Dorian’s strength? The answer is complicated, but one scientist said it was another example of slow-moving tropical systems 
The nation’s largest retailer made the announcement after weeks of discussion about how best to respond to the mass shooting in its El Paso store last month, above, in which 22 died.
The company said that after “selling through our current inventory commitments,” it would 
The move is expected to reduce Walmart’s share of the nation’s ammunition market to as low as 6 percent, from 20 percent.
The prime minister made good on his threat to call a snap general election immediately after Parliament won the power to try to stop a “no deal” withdrawal from Britain. 
There is
The accelerating pace of events suggests that 
Lost?
Andrew Higgins, our Moscow correspondent, is a longtime China hand. He returned to Hong Kong recently after many years away and was 
As protests continue in the semiautonomous territory, and distrust between the public and the police grows, tension continues at home for one couple our video journalists talked to. 
The Santa Barbara County sheriff said that 20 bodies had been recovered and divers had seen between four and six additional bodies in the wreckage, but were not yet able to recover them. 
The deadly fire was the worst maritime disaster in California in recent memory. Investigators are still trying to determine the cause of the fire on the boat, which the Coast Guard said had been in compliance with safety regulations.
Pet euthanasia rates have plummeted in big U.S. cities in recent years, falling more than 75 percent since 2009, 
The analysis also found that spaying and neutering are now the norm. A cognitive scientist who studies dogs looks at the history of that trend and argues in an Op-Ed essay that it 
Marjorie Salmon is a home health aide for a 77-year-old man with Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s diseases, which means she serves as social worker, diaper changer, dietitian and more — all for a dismal wage. Our reporter spent time with Ms. Salmon, who is on call 
We also looked into one hospital in New Mexico that has filed 
The 23-year-old has advanced to 
In women’s singles, Elina Svitolina defeated Johanna Konta to reach her first U.S. Open semifinal. These are boom times in women’s tennis, our reporter writes, with multiple generations colliding and a 
“Terminator: Dark Fate” will be the first time Linda Hamilton has starred as Sarah Connor in almost three decades. 
We also talked to 
In the world of letters, the authors Margaret Atwood and Salman Rushdie are on the 
Bar-headed geese climb more than 26,000 feet in as little as eight hours during their annual migration, earning them the nickname “astronauts of the bird world.” Researchers who raised a flock of the goslings and tested them in a wind tunnel uncovered some of 
There’s also a new study on how full moons 
Have a soaring night.