
It’s a story that begins in the 1980s in Austin, with her research on bankruptcy at the University of Texas, and ends in Washington, with her creation of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau after the banking crisis. It’s a journey that transformed her from a Republican who blamed personal bankruptcy on the reckless spending of consumers into a progressive Democrat convinced that bankruptcy was, instead, the result of a rigged financial system.
Warren agreed to speak with us at her hotel in Manhattan last week, giving us 45 minutes. As it happened, I arrived for the interview extra early and bumped into her on the street, taking a morning stroll around Union Square with her son and seemingly unrecognized in her big winter coat. (She told me she tries to walk six miles every day, even while campaigning.)
To help shed light on Warren’s political transformation, we turned to our colleague Andrew Ross Sorkin, a financial columnist and the author of “Too Big to Fail,” who reported on both the crisis and Warren’s advocacy. He told us that the financial crisis was the moment when Warren burst onto the national scene as a kind of national explainer of what was unfolding, at a time when most Americans were baffled by the meltdown and its causes.
Our editor Paige Cowett and producers Rachel Quester and Eric Krupke envisioned this episode as a narrative told from multiple viewpoints. So they combined the Warren conversation and Andrew’s analysis with the voices of key figures who interacted — or clashed — with Warren during this period: Harry Reid, the former Senate majority leader; David Axelrod, a former top adviser to President Obama; Jason Ross, a writer for “The Daily Show with Jon Stewart”; and Robert Wolf, the former chairman of UBS Americas.
Scheduling all those interviews proved a challenge that took months (and a bit of diligent sleuthing by our producers) to pull off. But we hope 
Usually, getting a story out brings relief.
Not so with the story of Minawar Tursun. After Monday’s episode, which chronicled her time in China’s detention camps in Xinjiang and the government’s threat to kill her if the recordings of her accounts were released, a whole new waiting game began. What would China’s government do? Would officials make good on their threats and punish her?
The initial signs have brought some relief. Ferkat Jawdat, her son, messaged me a day after the episode ran to tell me he had been in touch with her. He’d warned her that she might get more attention from the authorities.
“She said she would tell them to send her to the U.S. so she can control me and stop me from speaking out as she cannot control me from there. :),” Ferkat wrote.
Since then, he has been talking to her every day. So far, she’s had just one visit from a local official. But that doesn’t mean she’s out of the woods. Beijing has a habit of waiting for attention to die down before meting out its punishments. So we will continue to follow her situation closely over the coming year.
Following the episode, a huge number of emails and messages of support came in, many from those in the Uighur overseas community who still have no idea where their relatives are.
One person, using the screen name Uyghurtrailblazer, 
It’s a reminder that the story of Ferkat and his mother is just one of millions from those who have been affected by the camps or had family members disappear into them. For every story we know, there are so many that remain hidden by the systems of coercion and obfuscation Beijing has set up to bury what’s happening in Xinjiang from the world.