
Mr. Trump essentially washed his hands of the Turkish assault on the United States’ Kurdish allies, saying: “That has nothing to do with us. The Kurds know how to fight, and, as I said, they’re not angels, they’re not angels.” 
Infuriated, Republicans joined Democrats in the House in 
Above, Speaker Nancy Pelosi said immediately afterward that 
Vice President Mike Pence is leading a delegation on Thursday to Turkey, hoping to persuade the country’s president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, to pull back his offensive. 
A pattern is emerging in the closed-door testimony this week: President Trump went his own way on Ukraine, which he wanted to investigate his Democratic rivals.
We learned that Fiona Hill, a former top White House foreign policy adviser, testified on Monday that she saw Gordon Sondland, a Trump donor who was named ambassador to the European Union, 
Mr. Sondland, who played a role in the administration’s approaches to Ukraine, meets with impeachment investigators tomorrow.
Terms for Britain to leave the European Union could be struck at any time, the president of the European Council said, but Prime Minister Boris Johnson of Britain said his goal was 
Deadlines are approaching: E.U. leaders gather for a summit tomorrow at which they could consider adopting a deal, while Saturday is Mr. Johnson’s chance to get it through Parliament.
If the efforts fail, Mr. Johnson is required by British law to ask for an extension to the Oct. 31 Brexit deadline set by the E.U.
We’ve just learned that the nation’s three largest drug distributors and two manufacturers are 
The deal in progress would release them from a rapidly growing list of more than 2,300 lawsuits in federal and state courts. 
The drugmakers are Johnson & Johnson and Teva. The distributors, which together handle
And former Vice President 
The 
In Detroit, G.M. reached a 
The contract terms need to be approved by the union leadership, perhaps as soon as tomorrow, then ratified by a majority of G.M.’s 49,000 U.A.W. members.
The International Monetary Fund lowered its 
While President Trump’s trade truce last week with China temporarily cooled tensions, the “agreement in principle” would not roll back existing tariffs. Mr. Trump is also escalating tariffs on other fronts.
Meanwhile, with American manufacturing already in a recession, U.S. retail sales, reported today, fell for the first time in seven months.
An Italian court ruled that Leonardo da Vinci’s famous drawing 
The heritage conservation group Italia Nostra had tried to block the loan, arguing that the study of the proportions of the human body that dates to around 1490 was too delicate to travel from Venice.
A lawyer for a consumer-rights group said the ruling “recognized the fact that art is something that should be shared.”
The North Korean leader looks a little worried to us, but state media said his eyes “were full of noble glitters” on a ride to the mythical mountainous home of the Korean people.
While he was burnishing his cult of personality, he also became the newest entrant in the 
It’s been on the rise at least since Vladimir Putin’s famous bare-chested ride in 2009. Other members include Justin Trudeau of Canada, Boris Johnson of Britain, Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey, Narendra Modi of India and Andrés Manuel López Obrador of Mexico.
To our knowledge, President Trump has not been photographed on a horse, though 
That was Richard Branson introducing the 
Passengers will get to keep their space clothes — including the jumpsuits, underwear and boots — as part of the $250,000 price of a ticket for the 90-minute ride.
NASA has unveiled its own next-generation spacesuits. A bit less sexy, they will make it easier for astronauts to walk, bend and twist on moon landings in temperatures ranging from 250 degrees Fahrenheit down to minus 250 degrees.
Have a hardy evening.