
For art fairs, location is destiny.
The organizers of 
Then they seized opportunities to expand to 
Similarly, Art Basel expanded over the years from its base in Basel, Switzerland, to stage fairs in 
“The fairs are all defined by the places they’re in,” said 
But this year’s London events are happening in a city roiled with uncertainty over the economic consequences of 
“No one really knows anything about the implications,” Ms. Siddall said, adding that very few people at such events think Brexit is “a good idea, culturally.”
She added: “But
Ms. Siddall also 
At both Frieze London and Frieze Masters — the former for contemporary art, the latter for older work — each year brings lots of new art, and usually one or two structural changes in terms of how the events are organized.
“We’re always looking for ways to keep it fresh,” Ms. Siddall said.
This year at the contemporary fair, with 
Like
“We’re seeing things come back that haven’t always been part of the art historical canon of painting, drawing and sculpture,” Ms. Siddall said. “These media are being shown in a more serious way, and it’s inspiring to a younger generation of artists.”
Woven’s organizer is 
“Textiles are a broad category,” Mr. Costinas said. “On one hand, they have been part of art history for a long time, but they have been marginalized twice, in a Western context as women’s practice, and then as a craft or popular art that’s non-European.”
He added, “So there’s a double tension there.”
One of the exhibitors in Woven, 
Works like “
“It’s like 
The works on linen incorporate embroidery, but also paint, ink, fur and even marbles and beetle wings, some of which Ms. Ganesh finds on the street.
“When I heard about Woven, I thought about the 
She added that it became clear “they were expanding the notion beyond that, and so Chitra’s work was perfect.”
The main section of Frieze London will feature New York’s 
The gallery’s 
To that end, their booth will 
“We think a fair can be a great platform to promote an artist at a certain moment in their career,” Ms. Greene said.
Ms. Harrison, who has 
“We will have pieces of hers to keep her front and center in the conversation,” Ms. Greene said, referring to a suite of 
Elsewhere in the fair, South Africa’s 
The gallery also timed the opening of its third branch, in London, to coincide with the fair. At its new 
Frieze Masters, with 
The London gallerist 
“It’s a laboratory to discover artists,” Ms. Jacques said of Spotlight, where she has previously shown the work of the painter 
As for Mr. Parks, “He’s essentially one of the most important photographers of the 20th century, and that hasn’t been fully acknowledged yet,” she said. “He engages the empathy of the viewer without ever going over into drama.”
Ms. Jacques will offer images including 
One of the more ambitious presentations at Masters comes from 
Mr. Baker, who opened his London gallery in 
Mr. Baker added, chuckling, “Either they got desperate or I got better.”
The organizers “are very specific about what they do and don’t want,” he said. “But I made a proposal and stuck to my guns.”
His booth’s show, “
The most notable item is a Japanese 
 “It’s a museum-level object,” Mr. Baker said, adding that the price will be over one million pounds, or about $1.2 million.
He said he was happy to be showing such wares surrounded by much younger artwork.
“Dealers that join the fair are hoping for collector crossover between the modern work and older things,” he said. “We’ll see if that’s the case.”
And Mr. Baker said he harbored no hard feelings about being kept out of the action for so long.
“You can’t slide in on your reputation,” he said of the selection process. “You can’t just throw a few things on a stand, and that’s what makes Frieze what it is.”