
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We have a video investigation of a 
A United Nations investigation into aerial bombings of hospitals in rebel areas — possible war crimes — 
But the scope of the inquiry has so far been limited to seven sites among the many targeted, according to an internal U.N. document seen by The Times.
And diplomats say Russia has been pressing the global organization’s leader, Secretary General António Guterres, not to release the conclusions of even the narrowed inquiry.
Fears of a police crackdown on university campuses are growing 
Black-clad activists at campuses wielded bows and arrows, set up elaborate roadblocks, built brick walls and practiced shooting firebombs from a giant slingshot.
Mike Ives, our colleague in Hong Kong who covered the unrest into the wee hours, said the protesters had been “stockpiling makeshift weapons for days.”
As the prime minister campaigns for Britain’s general election coming Dec. 12, some of the public anger he once marshaled in the service of Brexit is 
On Thursday, a crowd of climate-change protesters wielding signs that said “No BoJo” and “Cruel Con” forced him to cancel a visit to a bakery in the southwestern town of Glastonbury. 
He has also fared poorly in flood-ravaged Yorkshire. “I’m not very happy about talking to you, so if you don’t mind, I’ll just motor on with what I’m doing,” said a woman filling sandbags. Another woman said, “You’ve got the cheek to come here,” calling Mr. Johnson’s promise of prosperity after Brexit a “fairy tale.”
The internet was supposed to be a utopia. Instead, it’s … something else entirely. 
A special issue of The Times Magazine assesses the internet and its likely future with 
The impeachment hearings surrounding President Trump this week 
Yuri Shevchuk, a lecturer in Ukrainian at Columbia University, said Ukrainians stress the first vowel, and pronounce it like the “i” in the word “kid.” The second vowel sounds like the “ee” sound in “keel,” and the v is also pronounced like the end of the word “low.” (It’s a bit hard to describe; there is 
In Russian, Kiev sounds more like “KEY-ev.” But U.S. State Department employees generally try to pronounce it the Ukrainian way — though at some points on Wednesday it sounded more like “keev,” with the long “ee” pronounced as a single syllable.
There is also a debate over how to spell the city’s name in English. The official State Department biography of George Kent, who testified on Wednesday, spells it Kyiv, which reflects the transliteration from Ukrainian. (The New York Times still spells it Kiev, which is the transliteration from Russian.)
Dr. Shevchuk noted that legend has it that the city was founded by a set of siblings around the sixth century and named for the eldest brother, Kyi.
 До зустрічі! (My computer tells me that’s Ukrainian for “See you!”)
— Andrea