
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering 
As tensions between Washington and Tehran ramp up, each has been 
Iran wants Europe to help solve its economic crisis brought on by American sanctions, and the U.S. wants Europe to press Iran into new negotiations to shut down its nuclear program.
Stuck in the middle, the Europeans have been reduced to calling for restraint. While they have tried to help bolster Iran’s economy, they are basically powerless in the face of American military and financial clout.
Mario Draghi, the European Central Bank president, said in a speech that “additional stimulus will be required” to help Europe withstand the economic challenges it faced, including mounting protectionist threats stemming from President Trump’s trade war.
Those comments caused European financial markets to rally and the euro to decline sharply against the dollar.
Ahead of his October departure, his words could be seen as a kind of pre-emptive strike in case his successor turns out to be a conservative less likely to combat a slowdown.
As Britain’s former foreign secretary widened his lead among Conservative lawmakers in the second of several ballots to become prime minister, 
The international development secretary, Rory Stewart — who is against a no-deal Brexit and for Prime Minister Theresa May’s plan — had been written off. But now he is the challenger with momentum, thanks to an unorthodox campaign that has reached out to some centrists.
A Ukrainian-Russian developer said in a lawsuit that he was 
The lawsuit sheds new light on efforts to accommodate foreign politicians and business executives who sought to attend Mr. Trump’s inauguration to press their agendas or make influential connections.
And try our 
Today, the U.S. celebrates a day that has come to be known for the end of slavery.
In actuality, June 19, 1865, 
Juneteenth is now celebrated around the country with cookouts, music and dancing. 
But when African-Americans in Houston wanted to commemorate the occasion shortly after emancipation, they ran into a problem: There were few, if any, public spaces where they could gather. 
So a group led by the Rev. Jack Yates, a formerly enslaved Baptist minister, 
Today, those 10 acres in Houston’s historic Third Ward are known as Emancipation Park. The park, which had a $33 million renovation completed two years ago, is considered the city’s oldest.
You might say it is the spiritual epicenter of Juneteenth festivities.
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Melina