
To answer it, they planned a lengthy 
The result, released in a 
In hidden camera footage shot during a trip to the United States last year, senior figures from One Nation are heard 
Australia has some of 
Since then, Pauline Hanson, the party’s leader, has said the comments were taken out of context — she called Al-Jazeera an “Islamist” organization and a “Middle Eastern foreign agent.” But she also attacked the report’s ethics, calling it an “illegal, covert operation.”
Was she at least a little bit right?
There are of course many well-known accounts of undercover journalism and like many people, I’ve read them with interest, from Gloria Steinem’s 
It’s one solution to a challenge all reporters think about: How do you get the information you need from those who don’t want to share?
I spoke to two professors about Al-Jazeera’s report, and also asked The New York Times’s standards editor, Phil Corbett, for his views.
Phil made clear that according to the Times
Exceptions involving sustained deception have been extremely rare, he said.
“Overall, we think, this is the best way to insure both fairness to our subjects and credibility with our readers.”
That being said, he added, “we recognize that other news organizations have sometimes taken different approaches, and there is a long history of undercover reporting that unearthed important information.”
The two professors I interviewed both argued that the story’s main discovery — that an Australian political party was aligning themselves with a controversial lobby group to potentially change policy — was clearly in the public interest.
But they also agreed that there were two key areas that raise questions and concerns: The use of hidden cameras and the fact that an undercover reporter became a part of the story.
One justification is that the documentary was transparent about its methods, said Andrew Dodd, director for the Centre for Advancing Journalism at the University of Melbourne.
“The audience is fully aware of the artifice that was created,” he said. “The audience is therefore able to make an informed decision about what they’re watching.”
But to go undercover for so long on this scale is not considered normal reporting “in any way, shape or form,” he added. “This should be a last resort. This has to remain extraordinary journalism that is practiced rarely and only for the very best reasons.”
That reason would be to bring truths to the public that would not ever reach them otherwise, he said.
He pointed to one moment in the documentary when the NRA discusses their social media strategy after shootings. “You see a glimpse of truth in that moment that you couldn’t get in a two hour debate,” he said.
But Peter Greste, a former journalist for Al-Jazeera, now a professor at the University of Queensland, said the story crossed a line in having a reporter broker the meeting between the One Nation party and the NRA.
“We are supposed to be observers to the news, not participants,” he said. “It’s inappropriate for journalists to become parts of the story the way they clearly did in this case.”
While the findings are “distasteful,” the party was not doing anything illegal, he added.
What also raises concerns is the party’s decision to 
While working for Al-Jazeera in Cairo in 2013, Mr. Greste was arrested and detained by the Egyptian government for terrorism offences. “What happened to us in Egypt was the government using national security to effectively silence the press.”
Given the cynicism toward journalism these days, he said, upholding the role of the impartial watchdog to gain public trust is more important than ever: “When you let ethical standards slip then I think we do damage to that support.”
So where do you stand on this? How important is ethical reporting to you in the pursuit of stories in the public interest? Shoot us an email at 
Now, onto a selection of the best Times stories of the week!
This week, we continue reporting on Christchurch and bring you a Netflix guide.
Last Friday, Attorney General 
The investigation found that neither President Trump nor any of his aides conspired with the Russian government, but 
Four of our most popular stories of the week.
This easy-peasy shakshuka 