
“We talk a lot here about what we should be doing more of,” Anand Giridharadas said during a
Mr. Giridharadas, a writer who had participated in a fellowship at the Aspen Institute, was addressing a gathering of business leaders, social entrepreneurs, philanthropists — capitalism’s “winners,” essentially — who were participating in the institute’s Action Forum, which encourages attendees to work on ways that they might change the world, preferably through win-win endeavors.
The privileged and powerful, Mr. Giridharadas said in his speech, are great at creating foundations and giving away money to good causes.
The problem: These elites are also fiercely protective of their own interests, which often makes them resistant to the kinds of sacrifices that would create real change. For instance, they’re happy to donate money to a few schools (and be celebrated for their generosity), but they will lobby aggressively against a corporate tax increase that could mean more funding for tens of thousands of schools.
The speech surprised the guests, angering some and inspiring others. Later, the talk was widely viewed online, and it essentially set Mr. Giridharadas on his current path.
Last year Mr. Giridharadas, a former columnist and correspondent for The New York Times, published the searing and provocative
We spoke to Mr. Giridharadas about his book and his views on the state of American democracy. The following interview has been edited for length and clarity.
If you ever go to a doctor and the doctor pokes around for a couple minutes and immediately brings out a knife or starts to give you pills, you should run. Diagnosis is a prerequisite for prescription.
The theory of the book is that we are in a moment of extreme inequality, of political stasis, of democratic erosion, because our common culture has been infected by a phony religion. And that phony religion tells us that the best society is achieved by unleashing people to make money, as much as possible, in every way possible, cutting every corner they can, exploiting people, underpaying taxes, degrading the environment, evading regulation, manipulating government, and then donating some of the spoils of that, or repurposing some side part of their businesses, and claiming to save the world.
Before we get to solutions, before the doctor gives you pills or brings out the knife, we have to have a clear diagnosis of what’s going on, and we have to understand who did this and how they did it.
I often feel that the desire for an instant solution among some of the more business-minded folks who read the book is actually a desire for premature absolution. I think they want to skip the whodunit part. I think they want to get straight to the things we can do because they don’t want to deal with the fact that, if I’m right in this story that I tell, there’s a whole lot of complicity that needs to be dealt with first.
I don’t think you can deal with a problem like white supremacy without understanding first what happened, who did it and how — you don’t jump straight to the solution. I don’t think you can deal with the problem of patriarchy without first understanding who did it, how it works, what’s the situation, how it operates. And likewise, I don’t think you can understand the problem that I call “capital supremacy” without going into depth — the depths of how it functions, how it works.
My theory of change is simple: I believe if you can begin to dethrone the phony religion, you can clear away the brush obscuring the path to fixing these problems the real way, which is democratically.
One of the things I talk about in the book is the rhetoric of the mid-90s when these tech companies were starting to really push into our lives. They were going to be forces of a democratic leveling. They were going to empower people. They were going to flatten the hierarchies of the physical world. They were going to decentralize power.
And we’ve ended up in a world in which we have basically one social network, one online store, one company for all information retrieval.
We used to worry 100 years ago about the kind of monopolies you had in steel and railroads and things like that. Not to minimize the early 20th century, but I would argue that was child’s play compared to the kind of monopolies you have with an exclusive social network that is a portal into more than a billion minds, and that is a primary platform for political discourse, and that owns Instagram and WhatsApp — WhatsApp in particular being a source of rapid and often dangerous information in developing countries that has led to violence in the past.
I don’t mean to suggest that people with steel monopolies weren’t dangerous, but I think that on the scale of Facebook, they were a 2, and Facebook is a 10.
Facebook could probably have the power to tip an election result — that is just the kind of power that needs to be regulated. I have little kids. Do you know how regulated our car seats are? How are these car seats so much more regulated? How do they come with so many more warning labels than Facebook?
This is a very good question, because it broadens the circle of complicity beyond the plutocrats themselves. I think it’s very important to remember that the plutocrats would not be able to pull this off alone — they need us to cooperate with them. And we cooperate with them by participating and spreading a culture that views them as saviors.
I spend a certain amount of time in Europe, and when I go to Europe one thing that strikes me is that very few people seem to think of someone like Mark Zuckerberg as a big savior or hero. In most European contexts that I’ve been in, they talk about Mark Zuckerberg the way they talk about a guy who manufactures drill bits — that he’s trying to make money, buy for a dollar, sell for two, just trying to do his hustle. He does his thing, but we’ve got to make sure we regulate and keep him in check.
But in America, we allowed this savior halo to develop around him. He didn’t put that savior halo on himself. That halo is a product of our beliefs, our media, the way journalists cover people like that, the way our president invites people like that into the White House to become sages and opiners on the future.
If we denude these plutocrats of their moral glow, I think it would actually become much harder for them to rule us. The first step is to safely stop believing their hype.
I think they’re right. I think one of the arguments that happened after Brexit and the victory of Donald Trump was about whether this was about economic anxiety, or whether it was racism.
I think the importance of racial resentment and the desire of white people and men to stay on top was overwhelming. That said, if America was working for more people, and there was less of a sense of scarcity, and more of a sense of fairness, and more of a sense of the game being open and reasonable, I do think someone like Donald Trump would have way less oxygen.
The kind of politics you see in Trump and in Brexit is a politics that gains life when people begin to feel like the system is rigged. And while I may disagree with people on where they take that politically, I think people are absolutely correct: The system is rigged.