
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering today’s congressional testimony by 
The former special counsel has begun testifying before Congress about his investigation into Russian election interference in the first of two hearings today. Here’s 
Democrats want Mr. Mueller to bring to life his 448-page report and the acts of possible obstruction of justice by President Trump that it mentions. Republicans are expected to highlight Mr. Mueller’s decision not to charge anyone with conspiracy.
Boris Johnson, a former foreign secretary and mayor of London, 
One of the most prominent supporters of Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union, Mr. Johnson made clear on Tuesday that he would push for Brexit by the Oct. 31 deadline, even if there is no deal in place. 
The Justice Department said on Tuesday that it would 
Similar inquiries are underway in Congress and at the Federal Trade Commission.
The Justice Department didn’t name specific companies, but said it would look into concerns about search, social media and retail services, presumably a warning to Google, Facebook and Amazon.
Beijing said today that it 
China also accused the U.S. of undermining global stability.
When the astronaut died in 2012 at 82, his sons contended that he had received lethally flawed care at a hospital in Cincinnati. The hospital defended the care but paid $6 million, a settlement that divided the Armstrong family. 
The news of 
And our Parenting site examines in vitro fertilization, and 
There’s more to Robert S. Mueller III than what he’ll be sharing with lawmakers on Capitol Hill today. Some of it is kind of fun.
For instance, when he was serving a 12-year stint as F.B.I. director, 
That “S.” is for Swan, inherited from Grace Swan, a great-great-grandmother on his father’s side. 
The Three Sticks moniker — bestowed during an era when Mr. Mueller often took on organized crime — has spawned T-shirts, a parody Twitter account and memes.
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Chris