
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning,
We’re covering the final day of President Trump’s 
Today, on his final day in Britain, President Trump is headed to an event in Portsmouth, England, on the eve of the 75th anniversary of D-Day. 
Mr. Trump made waves on Tuesday when he said that he believed 
Senators said on Tuesday that they were 
Mr. Trump has vowed to use broad emergency powers to impose a 5 percent tariff beginning on Monday and to increase the rate to 25 percent by October if Mexico doesn’t stem the flow of migrants to the U.S.
As a 19-year-old gunman killed 17 people at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School last year, Deputy Scot Peterson was outside, retreating to safety. On Tuesday, law enforcement 
Florida officials said that Mr. Peterson, the only armed sheriff’s deputy at the school, and Sgt. Brian Miller, who was dismissed but not charged, had “neglected their duties.” The charges were an unusual instance of officers being held criminally liable for failing to protect the public.
Buildings can be designed to withstand earthquakes, using engineering techniques pioneered in Japan. But the innovations 
The approaches reflect divergent attitudes toward risk, the role of government and collective social responsibility. Safety experts in the U.S. describe the current view as a missed opportunity to save billions of dollars in reconstruction costs after the inevitable Big One strikes.
She is the highest-charting female musician in history and an artist who changed the pop-culture game forever. Without her, we wouldn’t have Britney Spears, Lady Gaga and maybe even Janelle Monáe. 
A writer for the Times Magazine 
And we have tips to 
Sixes, wickets and the thwack of a ball hitting the bat. It’s cricket season in England.
The World Cup tournament takes place every four years. Its evolution offers an interesting reflection of British history.
As Britain’s empire expanded around the world, so too did its national sport, permeating the fabric of many of its colonies.
An early version of the sport’s global governing body, the International Cricket Council, came into being in the late 1920s and initially covered only “
In 1965, the I.C.C. started to let in other countries, like the Netherlands and Denmark, and in 1975, it organized 
Although the tournament has opened up over the years, every winner since the inaugural Cup has been 
But the sun never sets on England’s hopes. The final is on July 14 in London.
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Inyoung