
BRUSSELS — For months, Britain’s government has suggested that, when the country leaves the European Union, it will be able to retain many of the economic advantages of membership in the bloc.
On Tuesday, that idea received its clearest rebuff yet, when Michel Barnier, one of the bloc’s lead negotiators, insisted that “cherry picking is not an option” and argued that no country outside the union could have the same benefits as its members.
Negotiators will also have less time than they had thought to strike a deal, Mr. Barnier said. Though Britons 
Mr. Barnier suggested that while, in theory, there would be two years to conclude the talks, in reality, a deal would have to be done within 18 months, to allow time for ratification.
“Time will be short,” Mr. Barnier said at a news conference. “It’s clear that the period for the actual negotiations will be shorter than two years.”
Until Mrs. May formally starts the withdrawal process, her European counterparts refuse to negotiate, prompting a war of words as the two sides try to develop a strategy.
Mr. Barnier’s statement pointed to a hardening of opinion among European Union leaders. A former foreign minister of France and a former European commissioner, Mr. Barnier was appointed by Jean-Claude Juncker, president of the European Commission, the bloc’s executive arm, to lead the talks with Britain.
Speaking in English and French, Mr. Barnier encouraged all parties involved in the process to “keep calm and negotiate,” saying that the bloc was ready for talks and that it was united.
In a sign of how long it might take Britain to formally leave the bloc, Mr. Barnier said that a transitional arrangement could be possible. That might mean, for example, that Britain could stay in the single market of around 500 million consumers beyond the two-year period, while technical details of the country’s departure were worked out.
But Mr. Barnier said that would be contingent on reaching an agreement in principle on the broad outlines of the final settlement.
Mr. Barnier reiterated that membership of the European Union’s single market meant respecting the free flow of goods, of people, of capital and of services across the bloc’s frontiers. Those four principles, he added, are “indivisible.”
On Tuesday, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany 
Her comments highlighted one of the central divisions between Britain and the European Union. Mrs. May wants to curb the free movement of people, saying that would cut the number of immigrants arriving in Britain. European Union leaders contend that such a restriction would be incompatible with being in the single market.
Mrs. May has said little publicly about her strategy for withdrawal. She has argued, however, that Britain will not face a “binary choice” between membership in the single market and in the European Union’s customs union — which allows goods to flow free of tariffs — and life on the outside with no access.
In recent days, there has been speculation that some British ministers favor a withdrawal that would try to avert some of the 
That compromise has been described as a gray Brexit, and it could involve leaving the single market but striking a deal granting access to parts of the bloc’s trade zone, while applying limits on immigration except in some sectors requiring skilled labor.
On Tuesday, during a visit to the Persian Gulf, Mrs. May instead said that she was aiming for a “red, white and blue Brexit,” a reference to the colors of the British flag. That comment was dismissed by Tim Farron, leader of the opposition Liberal Democrats, as “jingoistic claptrap.”
Mrs. May’s government faces growing pressure to replace slogans with strategy.
Facing a vote in Parliament on Wednesday, Mrs. May committed Tuesday to publishing some form of plan for Brexit ahead of beginning withdrawal talks before the end of March, though it remains unclear how much detail this will give.