
LONDON — David Bowie died, and it was all downhill from there. That’s how 2016 felt if you were on the losing side of Britain’s referendum on membership in the European Union.
Post-Brexit Britain is now mired in crisis. The ruling Conservative government, lacking any coherent plan for leaving the union, is embroiled in a bitter legal fight over the process, while a divided opposition contemplates the disintegration of its electoral coalition. In a country polarized and paralyzed, an unchecked authoritarian right-wing populism — Trumpism without Trump — is coming to define the political culture.
The latest convulsion was caused by a lawsuit brought by a London-based investment manager, Gina Miller, to force the government to hold a debate and vote in Parliament before activating Article 50, the treaty provision that begins the process of leaving the bloc. Ms. Miller, who was born in Guyana, has been advised by the police to avoid public spaces for fear of attack. But it was the judges of the High Court who came in for abuse when, earlier this month, they ruled in Ms. Miller’s favor.
“Enemies of the People,” bellowed the front page of The Daily Mail, the country’s second-most-read newspaper, below images of the three judges who had made the decision. One was denounced as “an openly gay ex-Olympic fencer.”
“Loaded foreign elite defy will of Brit voters” was the verdict of The Sun, a newspaper owned by the press tycoon Rupert Murdoch. The Brexiteers are bitter winners.
The referendum itself was easily framed as the establishment versus the people. An Eton-educated prime minister warned that a vote for Brexit would “put a bomb under our economy” and risked Europe’s descending into war, and he assembled corporate titans to issue ominous warnings; the Leavers promised an independent, sovereign Britain that would “take back control.” One demanded support for the status quo, or else; the other promised change, and a punch in the face to a detested establishment as a bonus. A 
The High Court did not overturn the referendum result; it merely obliged the government to hold a parliamentary debate and vote before invoking Article 50. (Paradoxically, one plank of the Leave platform was a call to restore sovereignty to Britain’s Parliament.) The government’s appeal will go to the Supreme Court, but it seems unlikely to succeed — and some Conservative members of Parliament are calling for it to be dropped rather than provide another “opportunity for ill-motivated people to attack the judiciary.”
In post-Brexit Britain, the rule of law has become just another liberal elite institution designed to thwart the popular will. At her party’s annual conference in October, the new prime minister, Theresa May, caught the mood.
“They find your patriotism distasteful, your concerns about immigration parochial,” she said. “If you’re a citizen of the world, you’re a citizen of nowhere.”
Why such antagonism over a referendum about membership of a trading bloc? The vote exposed and widened divisions familiar also in America: metropolitan, university-educated people against working-class people; big cities versus small towns; young versus old. The Leave campaign appealed to communities battered by deindustrialization and working-class people whose lives are defined by insecurity.
Take the former industrial town in Northern England where I grew up: Stockport. The people there are seeing the longest squeeze in wages since the 19th century; a housing crisis caused by the lowest level of homebuilding since the 1920s; and public services under strain because of the worst budget cuts in generations. Many of the town’s residents view all these problems through the prism of immigration.
This highlights a dilemma for the opposition Labour Party on how to position itself. A chaotic Brexit beckons, which the Conservative chancellor, Philip Hammond, concedes will mean two years of “fiscal uncertainty,” and which is likely to conclude in an unfavorable deal for Britain. So should Labour use the court judgment to try to block Brexit in Parliament, hoping that enough Leave voters will feel buyer’s remorse over the referendum result and return to the Labour fold?
Labour’s own woes amply match the government’s problems. Although a fragile internal cease-fire currently holds, the party is chronically divided. Its left-wing leader, Jeremy Corbyn, has the enthusiastic support of grass-roots members, hundreds of thousands of whom have joined over the last year and a half. About three-quarters of the party’s members of Parliament, however, rebelled but failed to oust him in a leadership election following the referendum debacle.
A greater problem looms over both Corbyn supporters and opponents: Labour’s virtual annihilation in the next general election. According to 
Labour’s electoral coalition is unwieldy, to say the least, with fractures of class and region exposed by the Brexit referendum. Despite the party line, more than a third of Labour’s supporters voted Leave, especially in northern heartlands. Party leaders privately believe that the greatest threat to Labour is losing this segment of electoral support.
A further wrinkle is that if Labour attempts to use parliamentary process to disrupt the government’s plans, the government could respond by calling a snap election. All the polling suggests that the Conservatives would bury Labour in a landslide.
So despite internal divisions over Brexit — with many supporters favoring a second referendum in hopes of overturning the first — Labour has rather desperately changed tack, emphasizing its commitment to Brexit, rather than offering opposition. The party’s economic spokesman, John McDonnell, has praised “the enormous opportunities” offered by Brexit, and suggested that those seeking to frustrate the triggering of Article 50 are “on the side of certain corporate elites.”
How should Labour navigate this politically perilous path? Polling suggests that British voters are evenly split between cutting immigration and retaining access to the single market as the key objective of Brexit negotiations. Labour surely must emphasize that it would put the economy first, meaning maximum access to the single market, while addressing concerns caused by freedom of movement in the European Union by clamping down on the undercutting of wages and compelling multinational companies to train local workers. If the economy does indeed suffer, then Labour can pin it on the government’s failed strategy.
There are other possible openings. Britain’s national debt has been a key bone of political contention, used to clobber Labour in the 2015 general election as a spendthrift party in denial of economic realities. But when the Tories’ “austerity chancellor,” as George Osborne was called by one financial journalist, was ousted after Brexit, the Conservatives’ credibility as the party of fiscal discipline went with him. The referendum showed that voters wanted economic regeneration, and Mr. Corbyn won the leadership election largely because of his clear opposition to austerity, but Labour has yet to lay out a clear alternative — and risks being defined by its opponents instead.
Labour must redefine patriotism, too, despite the left’s traditional discomfort with such ideas. With Scottish nationalism dominant north of the border, national identity increasingly matters to English voters. Defending great British institutions like the National Health Service and the welfare state can be patriotic; corporate elites who put profit before people could be called unpatriotic.
The government may lose its Supreme Court appeal, but Parliament is sure to vote to activate Article 50. Even so, Nigel Farage, the then interim leader of the U.K. Independence Party (often known as “UKIP”), has — Trump-like — warned of riots if the referendum outcome is undermined, calling for a march on the court. One Conservative member, himself a Leave campaigner, has resigned from Parliament in protest at the government’s handling of the Brexit process, telling friends the party was now “UKIP-lite.”
An extremism that was once consigned to the fringes is now center stage in British politics. Right-wing populism may remake Britain in its own image. It may only be Labour that can stand in its way, but the party faces an immense challenge if it is not to be steamrolled by the forces that gave us Brexit.