
LONDON — It’s official — or is it? The British strategy for its divorce from the European Union is to “have your cake and eat it,” something critics have derided as delusional.
Ever since voting to leave the bloc, Britons have been trying to figure out whether their government has an actual plan for negotiating its exit, or “Brexit,” and what that plan might be. This week, an open notepad, surreptitiously photographed in the grip of an aide leaving the aptly named Department for Exiting the European Union, has offered at least a glimpse into the fog.
About halfway down, this line appears: “What’s the model? Have cake & eat.”
Boris Johnson, the foreign secretary and leading pro-Brexit campaigner, once notoriously claimed that Britain could leave behind everything it did not like about the European Union (like immigration from other European countries) but keep everything it did like (such as unencumbered trade with European countries). “My policy on cake is pro having it and pro eating it,” Mr. Johnson once cheerfully proclaimed.
So popular has the analogy become that Donald Tusk, the president of the European Council, warned Britain in October that “there will be no cakes on the table for anyone — only salt and vinegar.”
With a close-up snapshot of the notepad gracing most front pages in British newspapers on Tuesday, the government of Prime Minister Theresa May swiftly let it be known that the notes did not reflect its Brexit strategy.
The business secretary, Greg Clark, said that “it would be nice” to have the cake and eat it, too, but that this was “not the policy.”
“I was interested and amused to see it, because it doesn’t reflect any of the conversations that I’ve been part of in Downing Street,” Mr. Clark told the BBC.
Critics were quick to pounce. “If this is a strategy, it is incoherent,” said the leader of the Liberal Democrats, Tim Farron. “We can’t have our cake and eat it, and there is no certainty on the single market. This picture shows the government doesn’t have a plan or even a clue.”
However, another entry in the scribbled notes suggested that whoever was conducting the briefing had a more realistic take on the negotiations, saying that Britain did not expect to be offered access to the European single market after leaving the union.
There is concern, the briefer said, that Britain would face a “very French negotiating team” — the chief negotiator appointed on the European side, Michel Barnier, is a former French minister — and that the French were “likely to be most difficult.”
A spokesman for Mrs. May’s office said the notes did not belong to a government official or a special adviser. “They do not reflect the government’s position in relation to Brexit negotiations,” he said.
But they have certainly increased the pressure on Mrs. May, who has been fond of repeating that “Brexit means Brexit,” to be a little more specific.
The notebook was carried by an aide to Mark Field, the vice chairman of the governing Conservative Party whose constituency includes parts of London’s financial district, which is worried about losing business to Paris and Frankfurt post-Brexit. It displayed a full page of handwritten notes despite recent reports that a sign at the exit of the Brexit department reminds all those leaving: “Stop! Are your documents on show?”
Britain has started the clock on leaving the European Union, and will be out of the bloc by March 2019. Here is how “Brexit” has affected business so far.
It is not clear whether Mr. Field, who subsequently went next door into the prime minister’s residence, met the government’s Brexit chief, David Davis, or whether the notes are an account of talks held at the Brexit department that day.
But they appear to suggest that at least someone in the British administration believes that while a trade deal on manufacturing should be “relatively straightforward,” agreement on services like London’s lucrative financial and legal sectors would be more complicated. Even a transitional arrangement, one that would allow Britain continued access to Europe’s single market after a departure from the bloc while it negotiates a new trade deal, is unlikely.
“Transitional — loath to do it,” the notes read. “Whitehall will hold onto it,” they added, referring to the British seat of government. “We need to bring an end to negotiations.”
Opposition politicians also jumped on the opportunity to demand more transparency from the government. Keir Starmer, who holds the Brexit brief for the Labour Party, called on the government “to come clean, to end this unnecessary uncertainty and publish a clear plan for Brexit.”
“These disclosures are significant because they suggest that the government is not even going to fight for the single market or customs union in the negotiations,” he said.
The BBC’s assistant political editor, Norman Smith, said the way the government so quickly played down the notes’ significance highlighted how “awkward” their publication was.
“The real damage is that phrase: ‘What is the model? Have cake and eat it,’” Mr. Smith said. “The damage is the way that will be read by other E.U. countries.”