
LONDON — The government of Britain could need six more months to settle on a plan for negotiating the country’s exit from the European Union and an extra 30,000 civil servants to deal with the complexities of the task, according to 
The office of Prime Minister Theresa May poured cold water on the memo, denying reports that it was prepared for the government. “This unsolicited document has nothing to do with the government at all,” a spokesman said in a statement. “It was produced by an individual from an external accountancy firm. It has no authority, and we don’t recognize any of the claims it makes.”
Chris Grayling, secretary of state for transport, told BBC Radio on Tuesday, “It’s certainly not a government report.” As for Britain’s departure from the union, known as Brexit, he said, “It’s a complex process, albeit with some simple objectives.”
The British press, already fluttery over the complications of leaving the European Union and the uncertainties of a trade deal with a President Donald J. Trump who, as a candidate, expressed opposition to free trade, seized on the memo, which The Times said was drafted on Nov. 7 by a “consultant” working for the Cabinet Office, a government department that supports the prime minister.
According to The Guardian, the memo was “understood” to have been written by a consultant at Deloitte and was unsolicited by the government.
“This was a note intended primarily for internal audiences,” said Mark Smith, a spokesman for Deloitte, confirming the Guardian report.
“It was not commissioned by the Cabinet Office, nor any other government department, and represents a view of the task facing Whitehall,” he added, referring to the central government administration. “This work was conducted without access to No. 10 or input from any other government departments.”
Britain has started the clock on leaving the European Union, and will be out of the bloc by March 2019. Here is how “Brexit” has affected business so far.
But the memo to a large extent said what is widely understood: The government has not yet finished its internal debate on what kind of relationship it wants with the European Union, nor has it set its priorities for any negotiation; and the cabinet remains divided between those favoring as clean a break with Brussels as possible and those who want to preserve duty-free access to the huge European market.
That negotiation would not begin in any case until Britain invokes Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty, which sets a two-year limit for talks with the other 27 member states about Britain’s exit. A ruling by the High Court, which is being appealed by the government, said Parliament must have a debate and vote on invoking Article 50, which is not solely in the jurisdiction of the British cabinet.
While the memo spoke of six months before the government could agree on a negotiating strategy, Mrs. May has said she intends to invoke the article by the end of March. She has said little specifically about what she favors, other than a deal that allows immigration controls as well as access to the European single market, which many European officials regard, at least for now, as incompatible.
For now, as the memo suggested, she is trying to keep her Conservative Party together to avoid early elections.
The memo also pointed to Britain’s well-understood need for more trade negotiators and lawyers to work through that future relationship. Having been a member of the European Union for more than 40 years, Britain had no need for trade negotiators and clearly needs to hire more, and quickly; any deal will be legally intricate.
Given budget cuts and computerization, today’s Civil Service is reported to be the smallest
The memo’s figure of 30,000 extra civil servants seemed high, however, given that the entire staff of the European Commission — Brussels’ supposedly mighty bureaucracy — is 33,000, according to 
David Archer, who is recruiting lawyers and trade negotiators to suggest to the government, said 10 percent of the résumés he is now receiving are of “good quality,” with required experience.
The number of civil servants is down 20 percent since 2010, Mr. Archer said, and many civil servants are unhappy with Brexit. “Morale is awful and rock bottom,” he said.
Mr. Archer, director of the executive search firm Circle Square, said that the government was training civil servants internally, and looking to law firms, former ambassadors and former trade negotiators. “It’s a problem, since we haven’t negotiated at an international level since 1973,” he said.
There are about 600 trade negotiators worldwide, Mr. Archer said, including 40 currently in London.
Robert Bourns, the president of the Law Society, said the government was doing its best at recruiting for Brexit, but with only a few months before Article 50 is invoked, “this is an enormous task.”
Much of current British law has been developed in Europe, Mr. Bourns said. He added that the government recognized that the number of lawyers capable of drafting legislation had been reduced over time, and needed to be increased.
Mr. Grayling, a prominent Brexit supporter, said the government has “people in my department and in other departments working with the Brexit department,” adding, “I don’t know what 30,000 extra people would do.”
According to the memo, various government departments are working on more than 500 projects related to Brexit, which is more than they can handle.
It also repeated widespread reporting about Mrs. May’s management style, which is secretive. It said her tendency of “drawing in decisions and details to settle matters herself” or with a small circle of aides would prove unsustainable.
“It may be six months before there is a view on priorities/negotiation strategy as the political situation in the U.K. and the E.U. evolves,” said the document, titled “Brexit Update.”
Members of Parliament who favor a quick Brexit attacked the memo as intended to harm their case.
John Redwood, a prominent Conservative who supports Brexit, said: “It’s complete nonsense. You don’t need consultants who are against Brexit and trying to undermine it. They are not speaking for the government, and I’m very glad they are not. Brexit can be much quicker, better and cheaper than they think.”
Another pro-Brexit legislator, Steve Baker, said: “This gloomy memo carries all the hallmarks of the campaign we know is in progress to defy the will of the British people.”