
HARLOW, England — Perceptions of what happened that night, when a Polish immigrant was killed in a fight with a gang of British teenagers, depend on who is talking, and what they saw.
But with Britain increasingly forced to confront questions about tolerance toward immigrants, the killing and a separate assault on two Poles in Harlow, a town of 82,000 where one in 10 residents is foreign born, have focused new attention on whether ethnic tensions are spilling over into hate crimes.
After the 
The death last month of a Polish immigrant, 
But now, residents of Harlow are split over the meaning of the violence and what it says about their town and their country. And the attacks have shaken Poles in the area so much that 
“It’s got me round the twist,” said Martin Herglotz, 59, using an idiom for “crazy” in referring to the assault on Mr. Jozwik, whom he had met at a barbecue last year. The atmosphere here is tense, Mr. Herglotz said. Harlow, 30 miles north of London, voted overwhelmingly to leave the European Union. “I hope it was just a drunken brawl,” he said, “but I don’t think it was.”
The latest police figures show that nationally hate crimes rose by 32 percent in England, Wales and Northern Ireland in the eight weeks after the referendum, compared with the same period a year earlier. The police attributed the increase partly to higher awareness of hate crimes.
Among those most affected are immigrants from Central and Eastern Europe, including substantial numbers who came to Britain under European Union rules that allow citizens of member nations to live and work in other member countries without a visa. In Leeds, in northern England, a 28-year-old Polish man was 
There has also been an increase in attacks and insults aimed at native Britons who have Asian or African ancestry or are Muslim. Last month in Milton Keynes, a town 45 miles north of London, a 34-year-old pregnant Muslim woman was 
Harlow is characterized by seemingly endless roundabouts and tired-looking low-rise buildings. Mr. Jozwik’s death on Aug. 29 has divided residents here. Some see it as an obvious hate crime, while others regard the episode as merely a symptom of the town’s persistent youth crime. Nearly 1,000 criminal offenses, most of them nonviolent, were recorded in Harlow in June alone.
Part of the debate here surrounds the legal definition of hate crimes, which some consider too subjective. According to the police, a victim’s perception is what counts, even if the motivation behind a hostile act is unclear. A slur based on race, religion, sexual orientation, gender or disability that emerged in the heat of an argument, for example, can be recorded as a hate incident if that was how someone perceived it. But, to some people, such insults are relatively normal exchanges during a fight.
Mark Hamilton, an assistant chief constable who leads hate crime policy for the 
Mr. Jozwik and a friend were assaulted just before midnight on Aug. 27 outside a pizza place at the Stow, a small, run-down shopping mall in Harlow. The police, citing security camera footage, said that after the men ordered from TGF Pizza, they went outside and spoke with a group of young people for 20 minutes.
Then the mood changed. A quarrel began and Mr. Jozwik received a single punch in the face, causing him to fall backward and bang his head on the ground. The suspects fled.
Mr. Jozwik died two days later from a head injury before he was able to testify, a police official said. His friend and another man were also injured. Six people, ages 15 and 16, were arrested and released on bail. They will appear in court next month.
Residents said groups of teenagers of different racial and ethnic backgrounds often hang out in the area and yell at both immigrants and native citizens.
Bob Davis, an official who represents the neighborhood for the ward where Mr. Jozwik’s assault took place, said that the teenagers often ride bicycles, get drunk and hassle shopkeepers and residents. People “kept complaining to the police but police were not responding adequately,” Mr. Davis said.
“I don’t think it was inspired by racial hatred,” he said. “But everyone wants to jump on that bandwagon.”
In an email response to questions, the police in Essex County, of which Harlow is a district, cited testimony from the other two victims that they may have been racially abused before being assaulted.
“This will be one of several lines of inquiry,” the police said, “and we are keeping an open mind as we continue our investigation.”
As the police investigated Mr. Jozwik’s death, even more attention was heaped on Harlow after the two Polish men were beaten up days later.
Officers were called at 3:30 a.m. on Sept. 4 after reports that four to five men attacked the pair in front of the William Aylmer, a pub. One suffered a cut to his head, and the other a broken nose.
Diana, a 37-year-old Lithuanian woman who worked at the factory with Mr. Jozwik, said she witnessed the attack against the two men.
“Of course it was a hate crime,” she said, nervously puffing a cigarette outside an Eastern European supermarket in the town’s center. She was fearful and requested that her last name not be published. She said that the group started chanting a derogatory term in Polish at the two men, and that when one of them approached the group a fight broke out.
The police said they were treating the assault as a possible hate crime.
Whatever the motives, the attacks have only heightened suspicion between Britons and immigrants, with some recent arrivals saying the attacks have prompted them to consider moving because they fear for their safety. Some Britons in Harlow say they fear a possible backlash from the immigrants.
“I live next to a house with 11 Romanians,” said Martin Wildish, 63, sipping a pint of beer at the pub where the Polish men were assaulted. “Who knows what they might do to someone like me out of revenge?”