
LONDON — In late June, as Britons prepared to go to the polls to vote on the country’s membership in the European Union, about 800 hedge fund managers gathered at the opulent Cavalieri hotel on a hill overlooking Rome for an annual rite.
They were there to attend Goldman Sachs’s European hedge fund conference; among the guests were Pershing Square Capital Management’s William A. Ackman and Man GLG’s managing director, Pierre Lagrange. As the illustrious group mingled with investors over cocktails, the hedge fund managers, who collectively command hundreds of billions of dollars on behalf of institutions and individuals, were for the most part upbeat. Few believed that Britain would vote to exit the European Union.
But Britain did just that. The June 23 vote to leave, or “Brexit” as it is called, surprised many. So-called long-short hedge funds, which as their name suggests place bets on some stocks to rise and others to fall, suffered sizable losses at first.
Macro funds, however, which take gargantuan positions on big economic trends and were poised to gain or lose the most from the British referendum, avoided debilitating losses, and several even made money. Some funds benefited from derivatives trades that used put options, which are bearish bets that prices for assets like stocks and currencies will drop. For traders who bought cheap put options on British pounds in the days before the vote, the payoff was huge when the pound sank.
Hedge fund managers cite a number of factors that explain how some funds avoided losses. Unlike the sudden collapse of Lehman Brothers in 2008, Britain’s vote was well telegraphed. Few funds were willing to take outsize bets on the referendum, knowing investors would have skewered them had they lost money.
Some fund managers struggled to see a way of minting money on the vote, too. It was an event a few called an “elevator trade” — a reference to the adage that stocks go up the escalator, or at an angle, and down the elevator, or straight down. The British referendum was so hyped that the result of the vote would set off either a sharp rise in risk assets or a steep plunge.
Britain has started the clock on leaving the European Union, and will be out of the bloc by March 2019. Here is how “Brexit” has affected business so far.
Still, for those who were willing to make a wager, the rewards were high. The price to bet on an exit was dirt cheap, prompting some fund managers to buy put options on stock indexes late into the evening of June 23 while the votes were still being tallied. The next morning, a sell-off in stocks around the world meant those trades profited.
Conversely, managers said, it did not make sense to speculate on the vote to remain in the European Union. From a market perspective, “the much better bet was the ‘Brexit’ bet,” said Borut Miklavcic, the chief investment officer and managing partner at LindenGrove Capital, a macro hedge fund based in London. “All the instruments that were betting on ‘Brexit’ were very underpriced, so you either took that side or stayed out of the way.”
Funds that focus on stocks fell and then recovered when the market rebounded in the weeks after the vote. Leon G. Cooperman’s $1.4 billion Omega Overseas Partners lost 5.33 percent in June, bringing its first-half loss to 7.15 percent, though Mr. Cooperman said in an email this week that the fund was up for the year. And David Einhorn’s $3 billion Greenlight Capital slipped 0.3 percent in June, only to gain 4.9 percent in July.
Mr. Ackman’s private hedge fund lost about 2 percent in June, while his public fund, which is leveraged to amplify market bets, fell 3.1 percent for the month. They snapped back in July, with his public fund rising 2.7 percent.
Man GLG’s European Long-Short Equity, run by Mr. Lagrange, shed 2.04 for the month as of June 24, and was down 3.88 percent for the year at that point. It was down 4.93 percent for the year as of Aug. 5.
Alan Howard’s macro fund Brevan Howard has been struggling with redemptions this year but eked out a positive return despite the vote. Class A shares in his $15.7 billion diversified global hedge fund rose 0.94 percent in June, bringing its first-half loss to 1.15 percent. Mr. Howard, who is a big trader of British government bonds, benefited from a rally in gilts after the vote. The smaller Master Strategy fund was up 1.5 percent in June but gave up some of its gains in July, losing 0.09 percent net of fees. For the year, as of the end of July, the fund was up 1.26 percent.
Andrew E. Law’s $6 billion Caxton Global Investment fund was up 1.96 percent for the month and 0.43 percent year-to-date as of June 28. Last year, the fund returned 3.53 percent. So June was a very good month for the fund, relative to recent months. Mr. Law publicly favored Britain remaining in the European Union.
Hedge funds based in Britain had a better sense of the political pulse of the nation than did funds based elsewhere. The large American macro fund Moore Capital Management, run by Louis Bacon, is a case in point. Compared with the London-based Caxton, its $7.5 billion Macro Managers fund produced a return of 0.71 percent for the month that ended June 30.
“The majority of the U.K.-domiciled funds were set to benefit from a ‘leave’ vote, and, at least within the group we looked at, their U.S. counterparts appeared to be positioned the other way,” said Peter Laurelli, global head of research at eVestment, which tracks the alternative investment industry. Of the 10 largest macro funds that report returns to eVestment, the three that appeared in a position to benefit from the pound’s depreciation all have their headquarters in Britain, Mr. Laurelli said. He declined to name the funds that report performance data to eVestment.
Some funds that soared on bets taken in the run-up to the referendum flagged as the stock market rallied in the week after the vote. Crispin Odey, a hedge fund manager who supported the decision to leave and who 
Unlike the case with other market shocks, the vote gave fund managers the opportunity to correct course and make money. The markets did not move drastically at first when polling from two bellwether English cities, Newcastle and Sunderland, showed that the side voting to remain in the European Union was struggling.
Although Sunderland’s vote to exit caused the British pound to crater within minutes, it took about half an hour before the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index futures started to react, giving macro traders ample time to short stock futures, taking a bearish bet on the market that would prove to be highly profitable the next day.
Managed futures funds, which invest in a wide variety of commodity, stock, bond and currency futures, also performed well, according to Lasse H. Pedersen, a principal at the $159.2 billion AQR Capital Management investment firm. Its Managed Futures Strategy Fund rose 5.58 percent in June.
Mr. Pedersen explained that the main type of trading that managed futures funds do is trend-following, and this strategy performs well in crisis periods. “When things go from normal to bad, they may not make money; but when things go from bad to worse, that is a continuation of a trend and that is when they profit,” said Mr. Pedersen, the author of “Efficiently Inefficient: How Smart Money Invests and Market Prices Are Determined.”
Even some investors who underestimated the risk of a British exit wound up making money. George Soros, who manages assets through his family office, owned pounds in the run-up to the referendum, a spokesman has said. It was a reversal of a stance that Mr. Soros took 25 years ago when he made a $1 billion windfall for his investors by selling the currency and “breaking the pound.”
Mr. Soros initially lost money on his currency position this time. But market players and regulatory filings indicate he made up the lost ground and more by his bullish bets on gold. Among his positions in the precious metal, Mr. Soros had an investment in Barrick Gold, the world’s largest gold mining company. He shed a substantial amount of that holding in recent months, reporting in a regulatory filing on Monday that he had a one-million-share stake as of the end of June, compared with the 19 million shares he held as of the end of March. He also was helped by bearish positions on stocks, particularly European financial stocks such as Deutsche Bank.