
It has not been even two months since Britain voted to leave the European Union, and already, the travel industry is seeing the effects of the decision. While it’s too soon to determine how travel to Britain will be affected in the long term, for the time being, with the exchange rate of the pound at a more than 
The United States has long been Britain’s most valuable visitor market and one that continues to grow. Visits from the United States to Britain grew 10 percent to 3.3 million people in 2015 compared with 2014, according to 
Post “Brexit,” there are indications that Britain is increasing in popularity.
According to data from British Airways, for example, in the last week of June, flight searches on 
Hotels, too, are seeing an uptick. Paula Fitzherbert, the public relations director for the 
This surge of interest from travelers in the United States is expected, said Nadia Popova, the travel project manager for Euromonitor International, a Chicago-based market research company. “Britain, historically, is an expensive vacation destination, and all of a sudden, with the weakened pound, it’s become more affordable, so of course people want to come,” she said.
Some hotels in Britain, especially in London, are trying to capitalize on this interest by luring guests with wallet-friendly packages.
“We are looking at Brexit as an opportunity to drum up more business from the U.S. and also to increase our brand awareness,” said Alison Wheatley, the company’s director of marketing in Europe.
And though Expedia.com doesn’t offer its own discounts, travelers who buy a flight and hotel package to Britain through the site will pay less than they did last year, said Ms. Gavin. “Though hotels may not want to openly admit it, they are definitely discounting more post Brexit, and packages tend to be one of the earliest indicators of this because they allow hotels to discount in a way that keeps the discounted price opaque,” she said.
Currently, a package trip on Expedia.com from the United States to London, inclusive of airfare and accommodations, represents a 40 percent savings over a flight and hotel booked separately, compared with 30 percent during the same period last year. One offer available on the site, for example, is $3,757, inclusive of taxes, for two travelers for round-trip airfare on American Airlines from John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York to Heathrow Airport in London along with a four-night stay at 
But while a trip to Britain from the United States may be cheaper than it has been in several decades, the opposite is true in Britain, where the weakened pound has made it more expensive for locals to travel internationally.
This is having its own impact on the travel industry.
And, post Brexit, 
“The recent currency exchange shifts are affecting demand for travel from the U.K. to the United States, and we have seen a dip in future bookings,” said a Delta spokesman, Anthony Black.
Ms. Popova of Euromonitor said that Delta’s reaction isn’t surprising because the Brexit vote has created long-term uncertainty for United States-based airlines that operate in Britain. “The E.U. and the U.S. have an Open Skies Agreement that allows airlines in both countries to fly anywhere between both countries, but now, the U.K. will have to negotiate its own agreement with the States, which could be a lengthy and messy process,” she said.