
The new British prime minister’s visit with the German chancellor last Wednesday was heralded as a meeting of two of the world’s most powerful women, and the participants did nothing to dispel that idea. “We have two women here who have got on and had a very constructive discussion,” Theresa May declared, to which Angela Merkel jovially replied, “Exactly.”
But however absorbing it was to focus on the striking similarities between the women who now lead two of Europe’s major powers — both are daughters of church ministers, roughly the same age and regarded as tough and pragmatic — their first encounter was also the start of a fateful wrangle over the terms of Britain’s exit from the European Union, for which the British voted a month ago. And on that score, the most promising takeaway was that the two central actors seem prepared to play for time.
Ms. Merkel other E.U. leaders insist that Britain must accept freedom of movement as the price for continued participation in the European free market. But Mrs. May can hardly say yes, at least right away; a major reason why Britain voted to leave was to regain control over its own borders. Britain is also a major market and manufacturing base for Germany and the rest of the Continent. At the end of the day, Ms. Merkel could well conclude that Britain’s full participation in the European economy is worth more than open British borders.
Mrs. May’s signals have been ambiguous. She shocked European leaders when she named Boris Johnson as her foreign secretary. Mr. Johnson campaigned hard for Brexit and over the years has insulted a host of world leaders with his rude behavior. At the same time, she seems in no hurry to invoke Article 50 of the European treaty, which starts the formal withdrawal process, thus irritating not only “leave” activists in Britain but also European leaders like France’s President François Hollande, who wants to get the divorce going as soon as possible.
For her part, Ms. Merkel seems happy to allow Britain “a bit of time.” That makes the best sense. The ill-conceived British referendum was to a large degree a vague protest vote with immigrants as the bogeyman, and the economic consequences are only beginning to be felt. Sentiments on Brexit may yet change in Britain, and even if they do not, avoiding a deadline will give Mrs. May and Ms. Merkel time to work out the least damaging deal.