
LONDON — Lloyds Banking Group said on Thursday that it would cut an additional 3,000 jobs and close 200 more branches by the end of next year, as it warned that Britain’s decision to leave the European Union could slow the country’s economy.
The retail and commercial bank, which is partly owned by the British government after a bailout during the financial crisis, said that the economic outlook for Britain was uncertain after the outcome of the June 23 referendum to leave the bloc, or “Brexit,” but that “a deceleration of growth seems likely.”
Lloyds said it planned to cut annual costs by an additional 400 million pounds, or about $525 million, by the end of next year. Beyond the job cuts and branch closings, the bank said it would sell other properties it owns. Lloyds had 74,117 employees as of June 30.
It 
“Given the uncertainty, it is too early to determine the impact on our formal longer term guidance at this stage,” António Horta-Osório, the Lloyds chief executive, said in a 
The outlook for Lloyds and other financial institutions in Britain remains pressured by uncertainty about the potential impact of the vote to leave the European Union on the British economy, which recovered more quickly than other parts of Europe since the financial crisis.
The Bank of England 
Shares of Lloyds are down about 25 percent since the referendum and were down 3.3 percent to 53.92 pence in trading in London on Thursday morning.
On Thursday, Lloyds reported a profit of £1.59 billion for the first half of 2016, more than double the £677 million reported for the first six months of 2015. Excluding one-off items, profit was £1.86 billion.
Revenue rose 56 percent in the first half, to £18.4 billion from £11.8 billion. The increase was driven by gains in income from trading and insurance sales.
Net interest income, or what a bank earns on its lending after deducting what it pays out on deposits and other liabilities, declined 5 percent in the half, to £5.23 billion from £5.49 billion.