
It was always clear that Britain’s divorce from the European Union would be painful and costly. Nearly a month after the country’s ill-advised referendum on union membership, it is becoming clear just how bad it will be.
The British economy will slow noticeably this year and in 2017, the 
The European Commission is even more pessimistic. It says Britain’s economy could shrink 0.3 percent next year under its “severe” scenario. Both bodies also warned that the uncertainty caused by Brexit will slow growth in the rest of Europe. The I.M.F. lowered its forecasts modestly for global growth in 2016 and 2017.
British and European leaders need to take these forecasts seriously as they negotiate how to remove Britain from the union and structure a new economic relationship. Britain trades extensively with the E.U., and London is the biggest financial hub in the union. Economists say a disruptive breakup would be bad for everybody, leading to job losses and a spike in the prices in Britain of basic necessities like food that it imports from Europe. The pound has already fallen about 11 percent against the dollar and 9 percent against the euro since the referendum, raising prices in Britain for imports of goods and services.
It is clear that British politicians, especially those who campaigned the loudest for Brexit, did not prepare for this eventuality. Now, it is up to Prime Minister Theresa May, who took office just last week, and her new team to come up with a strategy to minimize the economic damage. Perhaps the best outcome Britain could hope for is an arrangement similar to the one 
So far, Ms. May appears to be wisely ignoring calls by some anti-E.U. politicians to quickly start the formal process of leaving the union by invoking Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty. British officials 
But a long delay would carry risks, too, by increasing uncertainty, which would depress business investment and consumer spending. What is clear is that Britain now finds itself in a no-win position.