
When Britain voted last month to leave the European Union, many deal makers predicted that future acquisitions there were all but dead.
Then, on Monday, with 
“Just three weeks after the referendum decision, it shows that Britain has lost none of its allure to international investors,” the British finance minister, Philip Hammond, said in a statement.
But after digesting the politics, the question becomes: Does the acquisition of the semiconductor company ARM by the Japanese telecommunications company SoftBank pave the way for more British deals? Or is ARM an anomaly among British takeover targets?
By and large, ARM is a special case for several reasons:
■ Even if Brexit causes an economic slowdown in Britain, ARM would be relatively immune. ARM, which licenses chip designs to semiconductor companies all over the world, generates a mere 1 percent of its revenue from Britain, with only 9 percent from the rest of Europe. ARM derives a majority of its revenue from Asia, followed by North America.
■ After Britain’s vote to withdraw from the E.U., the pound plummeted relative to most currencies around the world, making imports into Britain more expensive. However, ARM does not require much in the way of raw materials to do business. Rather than manufacture the chips itself, ARM’s engineers design the chips or parts of the chips and then sell that intellectual property to semiconductor companies. Much of ARM’s cost basis comes in the form of engineers’ salaries (its employees are spread out across Britain, Europe, North America and Asia).
■ ARM’s stock price gained as a result of Brexit because investors saw it as a safe haven in the region, given the company’s global exposure. Because ARM was trading at its highest level this year before the deal was announced, its executives were more apt to sell, especially at the 43 percent premium SoftBank was offering.
■ From a regulatory standpoint, the deal should not raise too many eyebrows. From an antitrust perspective, there is very little overlap between ARM and the businesses SoftBank owns. Additionally, Masayoshi Son, the founder of SoftBank, spoke with Mr. Hammond and Teresa May, Britain’s new prime minister, about the deal on Sunday before it was officially announced.
■ The deal includes no visible cost-cutting, and SoftBank even pledged to increase the number of jobs in Britain. “The independence aspect of the deal is very important,” said Simon Segars, ARM’s chief executive.
That said, deal activity may ultimately bubble to the surface in Britain as the current foreign exchange rate favors inbound takeovers, and a desire to diversify outside the region could encourage outbound acquisitions. A recent Brexit 