
JACKSON, Miss. — Thousands of miles away from home, in a solidly Republican state, a British populist politician came here on Wednesday to deliver “a message of hope and a message of optimism.”
“You have a fantastic opportunity here,” said Nigel Farage, the outgoing U.K. Independence Party leader in Britain who is credited with leading 
In a campaign that has staked its reputation on “America First,” the presence of a foreign politician was as unexpected as a Republican presidential candidate campaigning in a deeply conservative state with 11 weeks left in the election, yet Mr. Farage delivered a rousing speech in support of Donald J. Trump, keeping in line with the candidate’s populist message and offering supporters a vision and an example that they can win.
He repeatedly referred to how the Brexit vote represented an upstart victory for the “little people,” how his political effort turned out “people who have never voted in their lives” and how “anything is possible if enough decent people are prepared to stand up to the establishment.”
His remarks offered a salve of optimism as Mr. Trump finds himself behind in many national and swing state polls. Mr. Farage pointed out that the Brexit vote had “beat the pollsters” and that it could be done again.
The Upshot’s presidential forecast, updated daily.
For Mr. Trump, who stood just to the side of the lectern as Mr. Farage spoke, repeatedly nodding, smiling and applauding, the Brexit vote presented a parallel for his campaign.
“I was very supportive of their right to do it and take control of their own future like exactly what we’re going to be voting for on Nov. 8,” Mr. Trump said, adding, “November is our chance to redeclare American independence.”
Initially, Mr. Farage expressed reticence in directly addressing the politics of the election, noting that he himself had criticized President Obama’s 
“Having criticized and condemned his behavior, I could not possibly tell you how to vote in this election, but…” he said as he let his voice trail off and the crowd whoop itself into a frenzy.
Moments later, he reversed course.
“If I was an American citizen, I wouldn’t vote for Hillary Clinton if you paid me,” he said, and urged the crowd to “get your walking boots on” and “get out there campaigning.”
For the rest of the rally, Mr. Trump ran through most of his standard stump speech, repeatedly harping on the immigration plan of Mrs. Clinton and accusing her of playing identity politics and 
transcript
NA
“Hillary Clinton is a bigot who sees people of color only as votes, not as human beings worthy of a better future,” Mr. Trump told the crowd.
Mr. Trump and Mr. Farage appeared at a fund-raising dinner before the rally, where Mr. Trump had said he was brilliant for championing Brexit and remind the crowd that he predicted the victory, according to an attendee at the dinner.
Mr. Farage’s presence seemed to offer Mr. Trump living proof of his self-proclaimed clairvoyance, as Mr. Trump constantly says in his speeches that he is “very good at predicting.”
There was the occasional moment at the rally, however, when the declared parallels between the Brexit vote and the Trump campaign seemed to be lost on the crowd.
At one point, Mr. Farage ratcheted his voice up with the gusto normally reserved for an applause line.
“The big coward,” he shouted, referring to then-Prime Minister David Cameron, and attacking him for inviting a “foreign visitor” to London.
More silence from the crowd.
“Yes, we were visited by one Barack Obama,” he said.
The boos rained down.