
LONDON — As some financial companies consider moving jobs out of London after Britain’s vote to leave the European Union, the billionaire investor Steven A. Cohen’s firm, Point72 Asset Management, is taking a contrarian view.
The firm — a family office that manages Mr. Cohen’s $11 billion fortune and the personal money of some of its employees — has doubled the size of its work force in London in the last six weeks after reopening its office here last year.
Point72 also is raising its public profile — including a move into social media — as it looks to attract its next generation of portfolio managers and analysts in the United States, Asia and Europe.
The expansion comes as firms elsewhere pull back. The $154 billion Connecticut hedge fund Bridgewater Associates is
Marc Desmidt, who was recently named Point72’s head of international strategy, said in an interview that London would continue to be a magnet for talent in the fund industry. “To the extent that some people may be working for firms that are slightly ambiguous in terms of their commitment to London, we see that as an opportunity to stand fast and talk to more people.”
Point72, based in Stamford, Conn., does not manage money for outside investors, and is ineligible to do so until at least 2018 because of a regulatory agreement.
William R. Tovey, the new head of Point72’s London office, said in an interview that the market upheaval created by the Brexit vote on June 23 had created investment opportunities, particularly for Point72’s new financial team, which joined the company this month.
“It is an interesting time for them to be looking at opportunities with a clean sheet of paper, without maybe a lot of the baggage that many members of the market are currently carrying,” Mr. Tovey said.
Mr. Tovey joined Point72 about two months ago from Barclays, where he was head of its European equities distribution business. He previously worked at UBS and Mercury Asset Management.
Point72’s London office now has 23 employees — primarily portfolio managers and analysts — and the firm has said it could expand to 50 to 70 people over time. At the
Simon Head, the head of the financial services practice at the recruitment firm Pure Search in London, said that it was not a particularly buoyant year for hiring in the financial services sector, but that he had not seen financial firms instituting broad hiring freezes since the Brexit referendum.
Asset managers who had plans to increase the size of their businesses in London, similar to Point72, are moving ahead with their projects “on the basis that this is a long-term business,” Mr. Head said.
Oliver Rolfe, the founder and managing director of the executive search firm Spartan Partnership in London, said that the largest global banks had postponed hiring plans and might cut jobs later this year, while smaller firms might wait until fall before moving forward with new hires. Companies, in general, are acting slowly and cautiously in this environment, he said.
“If there are special talent available that a company could hire, that hire will still happen,” Mr. Rolfe said. “The difficulty now is the quality that is required to make the hires happen is far, far higher than it would be maybe two months ago. If you’re making the very best hire, even in the worst market, you’re still helping the business.”
Point72’s predecessor company, SAC Capital, pleaded guilty to insider trading charges in 2013 and paid a $1.8 billion penalty, which required it to return the money it managed for outside investors. It closed offices around the world, including in London, that year. Mr. Cohen renamed the firm and reopened it as a family office. In 
After the name change, the company found that potential candidates — particularly those with science, technology, engineering and mathematics skills — were not as aware of the firm or its philosophy.
The company has started a 12-month training program, called Point72 Academy, to teach recent college graduates financial analysis and investment research skills. About 2,000 people applied for this year’s program, and 12 candidates are expected to start at Point72 later this summer. Even more applicants are expected in 2017.
Point72 plans to expand its academy to include potential candidates based in Britain and Asia as part of its 2017 class.
It also has a 10-week summer analyst program to help undergraduates develop skills that are considered fundamental to its investment process. The firm has 18 undergraduates in its summer analyst program this year.
In the hope of attracting candidates who might be considering financial jobs in Silicon Valley, Point72 has added career pages on LinkedIn, Facebook and Google Plus, and is taking out sponsored advertisements on LinkedIn.
In the next few months, Point72 also plans to unveil its own YouTube channel, which will feature a series of videos to help potential job seekers understand the firm and what it’s like to work there. The channel is expected to debut on Twitter in the fall.
The expansion of the London office has also come as Point72 expands around the world despite not being able to accept outside money until 2018, a condition of its settlement with the S.E.C. earlier this year.
The firm is in the process of increasing the size of its Singapore operations and intends to move its New York offices to a new tower in the Hudson Yards redevelopment on Manhattan’s West Side by the end of 2018.
“I fully expect that this office can double in size,” Mr. Tovey said, regarding the potential for expansion in London. “There’s no urgency to do that. The focus is on quality. We still believe that we’ve got a business, an infrastructure and a proposition that is attractive to the most talented people in the market.”
No decision has been made on whether Point72 will seek outside investors once the regulatory restrictions are lifted, said Mr. Desmidt, who also oversees the firm’s three offices in Asia.
In April, Mr. Cohen formed a new firm called Stamford Harbor Capital, which can, if it chooses, accept outside capital. For now, no decisions have been made.
In keeping with his agreement with the S.E.C., Mr. Cohen will not have a supervisory role with the new firm. Under the agreement, Mr. Cohen would be able to manage outside money and act in a supervisory role again beginning in January 2018.
“What I say to people is part of my role is to ensure that we have world-class investors and a world-class operating infrastructure, that should we choose to take outside capital, we’ll pass any kind of due diligence on the back of that,” Mr. Desmidt said.