
LONDON — Deep in the cool and cloistered underbellies of five-star hotels, clients in this city’s most luxurious spas are lying back and getting pampered. Pressure points are massaged. Bodies are deep steam-cleaned. And soothing new age music is pumped through state-of-the-art sound systems. So far, so normal.
Until you look more closely at the clientele.
In the wake of Britain’s decision to leave the European Union less than three weeks ago, the group of spa-goers is no longer just society women getting ready for summer in Ibiza or well-heeled tourists on city breaks. Instead, many spas report a spike in bookings from harried swathes of London professionals, who are hunting for rest and recuperation as they grapple with the stresses and strains of the so-called 
“Brexit has very much been the topic of conversation,” said Eilidh Smith, the spokeswoman for 
The spa is equidistant between Westminster, the home of British politics (rife with uncertainty, as the country lurches from one constitutional and leadership crisis to the next), and the City of London, where thousands of workers in the financial sector are putting in overtime now that Brexit has weakened the pound and cast a shadow over the country’s economic growth.
“Many clients also have been upgrading their treatments of the day to add the massage,” Ms. Smith said. “The mood, over all, seems to be improving now, but we continue to have an increase in bookings for the longer, relaxing treatments.”
In Mayfair, also known as the hedge fund heartlands of London, the Spa at Brown’s hotel reported a considerable uptick in interest for its 50-minute Limoncel’toe Pedicure, “quite possibly from highly stressed individuals looking for a bit of respite from recent events,” said Sophie Grounds, the director of communications at Brown’s.
And 
“In the 24 hours after the referendum, bookings plummeted,” Venetia Archer, the founder and chief executive of Ruuby, said by telephone this week. “Clearly no one was thinking about their hair or nails. Clearly they were panicking. Since then, they haven’t let up, and we have no doubt that it is a result of people feeling professionally or just emotionally stressed by all the chaos that has been caused by the outcome.”
The company had seen an increase in at-home visits by therapists as opposed to spa visits, Ms. Archer added, with a 16 percent increase in after-midnight and early-morning appointments, as workers said they found themselves with less time for personal grooming.
And spas are not the only luxury businesses to have had their fortunes buoyed by Brexit; post-referendum, many foreign shoppers have said they plan to take advantage of the weakening pound to go on spending sprees for Mulberry handbags and Burberry raincoats.