
To the growing list of problems brought about by June’s “Brexit” vote, you can add corporate profits in the United States.
The pace of earnings growth for companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index has been declining since the third quarter of 2014, and it officially turned negative a year ago. Because stock prices tend to follow the general path of profits, this helps to explain why the broad stock market may have been generally flat over the last two years.
But many market strategists had been predicting an end to the earnings drought in the second half of 2016 because of rebounding oil and commodity prices — a sign the global economy was finding its footing. That is, until Britain chose to leave the European Union in a surprising vote last month, raising a whole new set of risks.
“If companies were looking for a built-in excuse for an earnings disappointment, they’ve found it,” said Jack A. Ablin, chief investment officer at BMO Private Bank.
By raising concerns over the British and European economies, the Brexit vote has spooked investors who had parked their cash in the pound and euro, leading to a stronger dollar, Mr. Ablin said. And that hurts the fortunes of American companies that generate a sizable portion of their revenue abroad.
Before Brexit, the dollar had fallen slightly against a basket of foreign currencies this year, after gaining more than 20 percent in 2014 and 2015. A weakening dollar not only reduces the cost of goods made in the United States and sold in foreign markets, it also increases international profits for American firms when they convert their overseas earnings back into dollars.
Since the Brexit vote on June 23, though, the dollar has risen in strength.
This trend shouldn’t have an impact on second-quarter profits, because the British vote took place at the very end of that period. Wall Street analysts continue to look for a profit decline of about 5.5 percent versus the same period a year earlier.
That would actually represent an improvement from the 6.8 percent decline in the first quarter and would end a streak of seven consecutive quarters of declining growth rates.
“Our call for U.S. corporate profits to bounce back in the second quarter is still valid,” said Olga Bitel, an economist and portfolio manager at the asset manager William Blair.
“Looking forward, however, there’s a considerable amount of ambiguity,” she said.
Market strategists had been expecting profit growth for the S.&P. 500 to turn positive in the third quarter, followed by a rise in earnings of nearly 8 percent in the fourth, according to S.&P. Global Market Intelligence. Such a bounce would have bolstered the argument of the optimists on Wall Street, who believe the seven-year-old bull market can keep running despite being older than average.
Such lofty profit projections aren’t easy to make now.
“I have a difficult time thinking how large-cap profit growth will rebound significantly this year,” said Mr. Ablin at BMO.
Mark R. Freeman, chief investment officer at Westwood Holdings Group, said that in addition to a potentially stronger dollar, “Brexit calls into question projections for global growth, and that’s an additional headwind for the markets,” he said.
So are rising wages.
Throughout this long but shallow economic recovery, wage growth had been weighed down by several factors, including cost-cutting efforts and lackluster productivity growth.
But wage growth has finally started to pick up. “For the last 12 months, wages have grown about 2.5 percent, inflation has been at 1 percent, and productivity growth has been zero,” said Ben Inker, co-head of the asset allocation team at the asset management firm GMO. “That’s a 1.5 percent increase in unit labor costs. That’s the reverse of what’s been happening on profits.”
Mr. Inker argues that in the long run, this could be a positive for the broad economy. “You could view this as a healing process,” he said. “We’ve had a long time when wages grew so much less than productivity. But if labor income is improving, that’s more money going into the household sector, and households will probably spend it.”
In the short run, however, rising wages will put pressure on near-term corporate profits.
Investors should not overreact, said Burt White, chief investment officer at LPL Financial.
Mr. White noted that so far, the profit drought has been concentrated in just a handful of the 10 sectors of the market. For instance, in the second quarter, energy sector profits are expected to be down 82 percent. And profits for basic materials companies, which are tied to commodities, and financial stocks are forecast to drop 7 and 9 percent.
Yet other sectors of the market haven’t been affected nearly as much. “We continue to see decent earnings growth in areas such as the consumer discretionary sector,” he said. Companies that deliver goods and services that aren’t necessities but that households want — appliances, cars and entertainment — are expected to see a 9 percent increase in their profits in the second quarter and a 13 percent rise in 2016.
John Stoltzfus, chief investment strategist at Oppenheimer, also likes consumer discretionary stocks, including automakers, in addition to industrial companies that are benefiting from low commodity prices.
An added benefit is that companies in the consumer discretionary and industrial sectors tend to have modest exposure to foreign economies. Only 26 percent of the revenue for consumer discretionary companies and 38 percent of sales for industrial firms in the S.&P. 500 are generated abroad, according to FactSet. By contrast, nearly 60 percent of information technology company sales are foreign.
Why is this important? Because domestically oriented companies have been sheltered from many of the negative effects of the strong dollar.
FactSet, for instance, points out that while profits for companies that generate most of their sales abroad are expected to fall 9.9 percent in the second quarter, domestically focused firms are bracing for a more modest 2.8 percent decline.
Besides sticking with domestically oriented businesses, investors should also focus on industry leaders, whose dominant positions in their industries are likely to produce steadier earnings growth.
“We think the benefit of being with the dominant, No. 1 player has increased over time in this economy,” said John S. Osterweis, chairman and chief investment officer at Osterweis Capital Management.
Even in the energy sector, where earnings growth is hard to come by, Mr. Osterweis said he has been adding to his position in industry leaders like Halliburton.
“If oil prices recover, the dominant player wins,” he said. “And if oil prices were to stay low for longer, more and more of Halliburton’s competitors might go out of business, so it would gain market share.”
He adds: “People often get spooked and discouraged when the market is under pressure. But that can give you an opportunity to swoop in.”