
The full consequences of Britain’s vote to leave the European Union will take years to sort out, but sports teams are starting to prepare for a potentially rocky transition that could make it harder for them to acquire international players from elsewhere on the continent and potentially raise the cost of signing them.
In the worst case, if the free passage of citizens between European Union nations is curtailed, British soccer, rugby and cricket teams will have difficulty acquiring athletes from the other 27 European Union countries, particularly younger players that many teams recruit to their academies and youth teams. This could provide an opening for British athletes who have not been able to win roster spots, but it could also dilute the international appeal of England’s Premier League.
“The Premier League is the biggest and most successful soccer league in the world, and the reason for that is the entertainment value,” said Gary Mellor, the managing director of Beswicks, a British sports management firm. “It’s probably more competitive than other leagues, but at the same time, you have a fairly decent standard of players. But if it moves back to being primarily British in player makeup, it will lose some of its appeal to a worldwide audience. That will impact television deals and sponsorships.”
Interest from wealthy foreigners wanting to buy British teams could also sag if the British economy slows, or if the quality of play suffers. A steep decline in the value of the pound might make it cheaper to buy teams, but it could also hurt the value of the clubs.
“There would be discount for going into the E.P.L., but then, theoretically, profits and revenues are devalued, too,” said Rob Tilliss, who founded Inner Circle Sports, a sports advisory firm. “But the product is so good now that they’ll figure out how to make it work.”
Despite the potential for turmoil, little may happen in the coming season because Britain has not yet formally applied to leave the European Union, and it will have two years to work out the details of its exit once an application is filed. Some British politicians already have suggested that they might seek a more limited departure from the European Union.
The Premier League and other sports associations, as well as broadcasters and others with a vested interest in British sports, might also lobby for exemptions so that the current visa-free passage between Britain and the European Union — which supporters of Britain’s exit opposed — could continue for athletes.
“They are a very powerful league, and they have lots of supporters in high places,” said John Williams, the director of the Center for the Sociology of Sport at the University of Leicester.
Williams expects exemptions to be made for athletes and other workers with unique skills.
“They speak the same language as the global TV partners, and they want to project themselves as global partners,” he said. “It seems to me the Premier League is bombproof.”
Rules, of course, can be changed: Norway and Switzerland adjusted their work-permit rules to gain access to the European common market. But given the anti-European rhetoric in Britain and the ambition of the Football Association, soccer’s governing body in England, to promote more English players, it is unclear what compromises can be made.
So sports teams have little choice for now but to prepare for a world in which players from the European Union have a harder time obtaining the work permits they need to compete in Britain. The biggest impact would be felt in soccer: According to 
An analysis by The New York Times showed that a vast majority of these players would be unable to pass the work-permit tests that were installed as part of new rules put into effect in 2015 by the Home Office, which is responsible for immigration in the United Kingdom, after 
Those rules were intended to help English players by making it harder for European Union players who are 18 or younger to join British clubs. The regulations also require even established players to appear in up to 75 percent of their home country’s national team games, with a sliding scale based on FIFA world rankings. The rules were largely toothless when they were enacted because, according to the European Union charter, no member nation can discriminate on the basis of national origin.
But if Britain leaves the European Union, its citizens will give up the right to move freely within the union and vice versa, giving the stiffer permit rules a real bite.
Clubs would also be prohibited from importing European Union players 18 and under, who were previously considered “homegrown” because of a FIFA exemption allowing 16- to 18-year-olds to play professionally for European clubs. That exemption would also vanish if Britain left the European Union.
There are now more than 70 such players ages 16 to 18 from the European Union, not including Britain, with Premier League youth teams, an important (and inexpensive) pipeline for talent. If those British work-permit rules had been in place years ago — or if the FIFA exemption had not — the Portuguese star Cristiano Ronaldo would probably never have suited up for Manchester United when he was 18.
“There could be a major systemic issue if the E.U. rules for 16- to 18-year-olds go away,” said Steven Gans, who specializes in corporate and sports law at Prince Lobel. “You could see a problem over time, though I don’t see anything happening immediately.”
Some of the most powerful English teams — notably Arsenal, Chelsea, Liverpool and Manchester United — have a significant number of international players who would not be eligible for work permits to play in England. Chelsea has 19 players from the European Union, of which 13 appear unqualified under a strict interpretation of the rules; Liverpool has 17 players, only four of whom would earn a permit.
Some of the affected players are boldface names: Manchester United’s Anthony Martial and David de Gea, Chelsea’s Branislav Ivanovic, and Liverpool’s Mario Balotelli are among an estimated 135 first-team players in the Premier League who might not meet the new standards if they went into effect today.
This shift could lead to more slots for homegrown English talent, something the Football Association contends would strengthen England’s national team. But the top clubs are global brands, in part, because of their many international stars, so any decline in their ability to attract top players could affect their team values.
This may distort the economics of signing players. Premier League teams could aggressively bid for international players now, before the stricter visa requirements went into effect. At the same time, talented British players could command higher premiums at home as British clubs, less free to shop in Europe, competed with one another for top talent, overheating an already frothy market.
“I think the clubs will clearly want to keep a totally free market,” Greg Dyke, the Football Association’s chairman, said after the vote. “Whether that is possible, we won’t know for probably two years.”
Rugby and cricket could also be affected. British rugby teams employ many players from South Africa and the Pacific islands under a European Court of Justice ruling known as the Kolpak decision. Players from these countries do not count against the cap of two foreign players per team. The current Rugby Union champions, London Saracens, have 14 players, including the American wing Chris Wyles, who could be affected. In county cricket, only 6 percent of players fall under the Kolpak rule, but it is enough to concern the England and Wales Cricket Board.
Rugby and cricket, though, are not nearly as popular or as powerful as soccer, which is why experts predicted that in the end, Britain would ultimately tinker as little as possible with its national sport.
“I am virtually certain that because of the E.P.L.’s market power, there will be all sorts of exceptions negotiated,” said Andrei S. Markovits, who has written widely on politics and sports at the University of Michigan. “Next to the Beatles and Rolling Stones, the E.P.L. is the most successful English cultural export.”