
LONDON — Despite the widespread uncertainty created by Britain’s vote last month to 
The Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee voted 8 to 1 to maintain its benchmark interest rate at 0.5 percent, where it has been since March 2009.
The decision last month to leave the 28-nation bloc, known as Brexit, has clouded the growth outlook for Britain, which emerged as one of the region’s strongest economies after the global financial crisis. Now everything is in flux. The vote is forcing a reassessment of Britain’s trading relationship with the Continent, the status of its critically important financial services industry and 
The uncertainty has rattled the financial markets. After the referendum, the pound plunged to 31-year lows, as investors sought havens. 
Mark J. Carney, the governor of the Bank of England, has cited the continuing uncertainty as a major drag on the economy, creating tighter financial conditions with potential repercussions around the region. 
The issue of uncertainty has been echoed by the new chancellor of the Exchequer, 
The United States Treasury secretary, Jacob J. Lew, returned to London on Thursday to meet with his British counterpart, after meeting with his predecessor earlier in the week. The last-minute schedule change reflected not just the close American-British relationship, but the global desire to minimize any disruption from the so-called Brexit.
The British central bank on Thursday again pointed to potential signs of stress after the referendum. Some businesses were beginning to delay investment projects and postpone recruitment, while consumer sentiment was weakening.
“This evidence suggested the uncertainty flowing from the referendum result was likely to depress economic activity in the near term,” 
Even so, the central bank decided to take a wait-and-see attitude before making another move. The financial system, it noted, looked resilient after the referendum, while banks remained on solid ground in terms of capital.
“The Bank of England has decided that patience is a virtue,” said Paul Diggle, an economist at Aberdeen Asset Management.
Mr. Carney has sought to reassure investors, saying the central bank has several tools available to stabilize the market.
He made 250 billion pounds, or about $331 billion, available as a backstop to keep the system functioning. The central bank has also lowered the amount of capital that banks are required to keep in reserve, which would in theory allow them to lend more to consumers and businesses.
In the prelude to the rate decision, a number of economists and analysts had predicted that the bank would lower the rate by 25 basis points, particularly in light of Mr. Carney’s earlier comments. There also was a belief that the committee could increase the size of the bank’s bond-buying program, a policy known as quantitative easing, which injects cash into the economy and helps keeps rates down.
But the central bank, for now, is keeping those two major tools in reserve.
The Monetary Policy Committee voted to keep the bond purchasing program at the same level, £375 billion, as it has been for the last four years.
“The committee had taken some reassurance from the evidence that markets had continued to function effectively throughout the period,” the central bank’s minutes said. “The overall resilience of the U.K. financial system, and the flexibility of the regulatory framework, had allowed the impact of the referendum result to be dampened rather than amplified.”
The next steps will depend on the data.
The central bank is expected to unveil in August its updated forecast for inflation, an important metric for monetary policy decisions. It also will keep its eye on the extent to which economic activity has slowed since the referendum — from housing starts to hiring.
One member of the committee, Gertjan Vlieghe, already felt a cut was warranted, pointing in part to the “outlook for medium-term inflation — even taking into account the boost from the lower level of sterling.” And the committee broadly suggested a rate cut was likely next month.
“Whatever the economic merits or demerits of cutting interest rates at this juncture, the lack of clear direction is more likely to add to economic uncertainty and therefore be detrimental to demand and the economy,” said Angus Armstrong, the director of macroeconomics at the National Institute of Economic and Social Research.