
LONDON — After a startlingly swift transfer of power that made her Britain’s prime minister, 
Mr. Johnson had been at the forefront of the so-called Leave campaign, but after its triumph abruptly pulled out of the contest to succeed Prime Minister 
Speaking as she arrived at the prime minister’s office at 10 Downing Street, Ms. May, 59, who had served for six years as home secretary, sought to position herself firmly in the tradition of “one nation” Conservatism, stressing her commitment to helping the underprivileged and pledging to fight “burning injustice.” She also promised to preside over an economy that benefits everyone.
transcript
N/a
“As we leave the European Union we will forge a bold new positive role for ourselves in the world, and we will make Britain a country that works not just for a privileged few but for every one of us,” Ms. May said, as her husband, Philip, stood nearby.
Another notable appointment was that of David Davis, a former minister for Europe and a longstanding Euroskeptic, to lead a new department responsible for exiting the European Union. Liam Fox, a former defense secretary, will take charge of international trade.
Ms. May has effectively handed Mr. Johnson, Mr. Davis and Mr. Fox the responsibility for successfully carrying out the withdrawal — known as Brexit — which they repeatedly promised would yield new opportunities.
transcript
SOT MAY 1168 BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND, UK (JULY 11, 2016): “we will make Britain a country that works for everyone.”

VO:Theresa May was really an incredible candidate left in the race, but the speed with which she was installed was very surprising.

I’m Stephen Castle, a London correspondent for The New York Times

SOT CONSERVATIVE LEADER OF THE HOUSE OF COMMONS, BREXITEER WHO NOW SUPPORTS THERESA MAY, CHRIS GRAYLING - 1190 - JULY 11, 2016 LONDON
:“We all know that Theresa will do everything she can to equip our country for the challenges that lie ahead.”

 The general consensus at the highest level of the Conservative party is that there were needed some swift actions to end the uncertainty. 

SOT Theresa May: “I’ve been Home Secretary for six years now...” 

VO: Theresa May is known as a very tough operator. In fact, the homeland business has been described as  

SOT May 1172 -  “Taking control is about making sure that our voice is heard and that it counts. “O    

VO: Theresa May is the second female PM that Britain had. The first was Margaret Thatcher.

SOT MAY - Women in the World/Youtube: ” - Was she influential on you? - I’m not someone who has a role model.”

VO: She’s a conservative and generally regarded as extremely methodical, effective and a pretty good negotiator.

SOT MAY: 1172 As we look at issues like the movement of illegal firearms across Europe, the sharing of criminal records, reducing the pull factors that is leading my people to want to migrate into Europe, I am very clear that the United Kingdom can take a lead. 

VO: As a new prime minister, Theresa May will have a plausible control over the whole range of government including economics and foreign policy, 2 areas she’s never really dealt with in much detail.

As a conservative politician, she has a big drop on her hands, because personally Thesera May didn’t vote to leave the E.U.

SOT MAY on June 15, 2016 BBC [0.25]: 
“We’d be more secure and safe inside the E.U.”

VO: But she now has the job of delivering Brexit. 

SOT 4180 MAY The country voted to leave the European Union and it’s the duty of the government and —- parliament to make sure we do just that.

VO: She said Brexit means Brexit, but no one knows what it really means. 

VOXPOP: AMY ROSS LONDON July 11 - 1190:
Hopefully that will mean that she’s able to negotiate the best position for us.

SOT: (German) BAADER BANK HEAD OF CAPITAL MARKETS ANALYSIS, ROBERT HALVER 2134 FRANKFURT, GERMANY (JULY 12, 2016) 
There are connections between Brussels and London, which one can’t cut off. This means, the Britons somehow remain with us even if they leave.”

VO: So she is going to have to define how much control Britain has over immigration and how much access it has to european markets.  

SOT 1158 MAY: “Brexit means Brexit and we are going to make a success of it. 

END
Putting crucial international portfolios firmly in the hands of Brexit supporters was perhaps an astute move for Ms. May, who had argued, tepidly, for Britain to remain in the European Union.
Not only do the appointments appear to reflect a desire to unite her party around the outcome of the June 23 
Even so, Mr. Johnson’s elevation to such a prestigious post represents a remarkable change of fortunes in a career that has had its share of them. He played a key role in the extraordinary national dramas of the last few months, abandoning Mr. Cameron, who desperately tried to keep Britain in the European Union, and cheerfully becoming the public face of the Brexit campaign.
transcript
n/a
Yet when Mr. Cameron announced his resignation after the referendum, Mr. Johnson’s hopes of succeeding him as Conservative Party leader were undermined by another Brexit supporter, Justice Secretary Michael Gove, who threw aside his support for Mr. Johnson and announced his own candidacy. Mr. Gove argued that Mr. Johnson was not up to the job.
Ms. May herself recently mocked Mr. Johnson’s negotiating skills over London’s purchase of used German water cannons when he was mayor. She blocked the use of the cannons, citing fears that they could cause serious injuries.
Among other appointments, Ms. May promoted Amber Rudd, former energy secretary, to home secretary. That ensures that one of the biggest political offices — and Ms. May’s old job — remains in the hands of a woman. The new prime minister chose Philip Hammond, who had been foreign secretary, as chancellor of the Exchequer, replacing George Osborne, a close Cameron ally.
Ms. May moved into 10 Downing Street after a day of political ritual that saw Mr. Cameron address lawmakers for the last time as prime minister, before tendering his 
Only on Monday did Ms. May learn that she would become prime minister, when the last remaining contender to lead the governing Conservative Party, Andrea Leadsom, 
Ms. May’s task is more formidable than that of most of her 
transcript
N/A
The Brexit referendum divided the nation, with the majority of voters in a number of less affluent areas opting to quit the bloc, while most of those in London, Scotland and Northern Ireland took the opposite view. On Monday, Ms. May outlined some of the economic changes she hopes to make, speaking about taming excessive 
Just an hour or so before Ms. May spoke outside 10 Downing Street on Wednesday, Mr. Cameron stood in the same spot, flanked by his wife, Samantha, and their three children, paying tribute to his family and his key staff members who had supported him.
“It has been the greatest honor of my life to serve our country as prime minister over these last six years, and to serve as the leader of my party for almost 11 years,” Mr. Cameron said. “My only wish is continued success for this great country that I love so very much.”
Mr. Cameron cited the nation’s economic recovery as his top legacy. “With the deficit cut by two-thirds, two and a half million more people in work and one million more businesses, there can be no doubt that our economy is immeasurably stronger,” he said.
He also cited among his accomplishments the 
“I’m delighted that for the second time in British history, the new prime minister will be a woman, and once again a Conservative,” Mr. Cameron said. “I believe Theresa will provide strong and stable leadership in fulfilling the Conservative manifesto on which we were elected, and I wish her well in negotiating the best possible terms for Britain’s exit from the European Union.”
Hours earlier, in his final parliamentary duty, Mr. Cameron took part for the last time in 
On Wednesday, the discussion was more respectful — and lighthearted — than usual, as Mr. Cameron’s political adversaries and allies paid tribute to him.
“I’m told that there are lots of leadership roles out there at the moment: there’s the England football team, there’s ‘Top Gear,’ there’s even across the big pond the role that needs filling,” 