
When I was an undergraduate a few decades ago, I spent a semester at Goldsmiths College (now officially Goldsmiths, University of London), in New Cross, in southeast London. Ever since, I’d wanted to go back and see the small campus, with its cluster of midcentury dorms and surrounding streets of general decrepitude: sagging rowhouses; low-end shops; pubs and the occasional greasy spoon. At the time, Goldsmiths was the only study-in-London program I could find that allowed one-semester students like me to live and study amid our British counterparts, rather than in an Americans-only bubble.
Despite my expectations, I had felt like an exile during my time there, stranded miles from everything worth doing, and desperately lonely. So the urge to return was strange, and not only because New Cross is hardly the epicenter of must-sees.
Even so, during a visit some months before the Brexit vote, I armed myself with a detailed map and trolled all over South and Southeast London — a conglomeration of formerly independent villages, boroughs, towns and green spaces that have long since been incorporated into London (roughly the equivalent of the vastly different neighborhoods that make up New York City’s five boroughs). And just as a die-hard Upper West Sider can’t imagine going anywhere in Queens other than its airports, for most nonresidents of London’s other half, the south side of the Thames might as well be the far side of the moon.
“You’re going 
Undeterred, I set out. After my jaunt to the Goldsmiths campus and my own memory lane (Surrey House, the dorm where I’d had a tiny room), I aimed for more tourist-friendly spots, some of which I hadn’t even known existed when I was a student.
But first, I couldn’t help but notice that the once-bleak neighborhoods around the campus were now a diverse community with markets, cafes and art studios. And my former dorm, once home to some 150 pale-faced British girls, with a few Americans tossed in, was now home to a veritable United Nations of accents, skin tones and nationalities, and coed. It was the very kind of multicultural brew that was the opposite of the nearly all-white comformity that had ruled in my day — thanks to, among other changes, Britain’s inclusion in the European Union. What, I wonder, will happen now that the “leave” vote won?
The next day, I started out again, this time just south of the South Bank of the Thames, in Lambeth, because that’s where the IWM London, a branch of the 
Afterward, I headed toward the Thames, now studded with high-rise construction, and on to the residential and commercial district of Vauxhall, once a hub for the early industrial age, and also where what many believe to be the oldest known Thames bridge, circa 1500 B.C., once stood. Until recently it was an unchic place, with overcrowded public housing “schemes,” manufacturing and gasworks — an area that no tourist would visit during my student days.
Today Vauxhall, a.k.a. VoHo, is filled with gay bars, nightclubs and other venues, and is home to the 
My walk also took me through the once-famous Victorian Vauxhall pleasure gardens and its adjoining blink-and-you-miss-it 
The thing about London, the urban, known entity: It’s not only immense, but also old, going back to Roman times, and growing organically through the centuries, a magnet for immigrants and strivers, knitted together by the miracle of modern transportation. Any place you land is going to have a multistoried past — something I had no real access to, in 1980, when I was there. Not that I didn’t understand how old London was but, rather, that I had no way of orienting myself in its layers of time and place — at least not with the non-internet resources then available (just a Tube map, a guidebook and extremely limited funds).
If only I’d known then what I know now, namely, that Southeast London, far from being a cultural wasteland, is home to much that is beautiful and blooming. Take Dulwich, consisting of East Dulwich, West Dulwich and Dulwich Village, and until 1889 a part of Surrey. It was settled 1,000 years ago, give or take, when the king gave land to one of his thanes, Earl Aelfheah.
Today Dulwich is best known for the 
In East Dulwich, there is more charm, with a Saturday market on North Cross Road, Edwardian rowhouses and a slightly spooky brick Victorian hospital, still in use. Gentrification has brought a busy high street filled with gastro pubs, cafes, hair salons, boutiques and a good French bistro. It was a far cry from my memories of Lewisham High Street, where more than three decades earlier I’d go shopping in mainly shabby stores for things like shampoo and dental floss, returning to my dreary dorm in time for the bell summoning us to tea.
Speaking of gentrification, there’s a reason London is so expensive: Everyone wants to live there. Which is why all kinds of formerly drab neighborhoods are hot. Abbey Wood, 10 miles east of Charing Cross, is not, however, one of them, though if you like ruins (I do), there’s a fine one to be had at the ancient Lesnes Abbey, founded in the 12th century, and today surrounded by parkland and footpaths.
But for real urban rehab, Clapham is more like it. Clapham has an upper-class background (Samuel Pepys enjoyed a countryside lifestyle here at the end of his life). However, after the railways came in the 19th century, Clapham became accessible to commuters and hence developed as a suburb, becoming synonymous with the ordinary, if reasonable, citizen. (Hence the term, introduced into English law during the reign of Queen Victoria, “man on the Clapham omnibus,” to indicate what the man on the street would do in a given circumstance.) Enter young mothers who want more than a single-room flat in which to raise their young, and voilà: the huge green expanse of Clapham Common, ringed with mansions and filled with tennis players, runners, dog-walkers and a zillion moms pushing a zillion babies — giving rise to the nickname “Nappy Valley.”
In the area’s physical valley, on Northcote Road in Battersea, I came across a veritable traffic jam of prams, along with design shops, coffee emporiums and my own destination: the 
If you like markets, nothing beats the one in Brixton, consisting of open-air shops along Electric Avenue and covered markets. There’s nothing that can’t be found there, including wigs, jewelry, electrical gadgets, secondhand CDs, and just about every kind of fruit and vegetable and fish.
When people in the warmer reaches of the British Empire started immigrating to London in the 1940s and ’50s, it was largely to Brixton that they moved, and today Brixton includes a mix of African and Afro-Caribbean residents, accents and, most importantly, cuisines. I had one of the most memorable — and inexpensive — meals of my adult life at a blink-and-you-miss-it kiosk called Bushman Kitchen on Brixton Station Road, where there was no menu, and the man who served me insisted on making me something special, which I couldn’t get in America, and produced a jerk chicken roti with plantains and cabbage that was so delicious I wanted to move to Jamaica.
So far, so good: I’d walked and traveled by both Tube and suburban train line to more of South and Southeast London than most Londoners would dream of doing. But I still hadn’t revisited the places that most fascinated me as a student. One of them was Greenwich Park, to which I used to run, arriving at the top of a hill to look down at the large white buildings, then seemingly mostly vacant, of Christopher Wren’s magnificent 
By the time I got to Greenwich, I was sure that I’d finally get a whiff of my former self. Instead, what I found was that half of Europe had decided that this was a fine place to spend a Sunday, and there they were, milling around the birthplace of Henry VIII and Greenwich Mean Time, and generally enjoying the magnificent buildings, parks, colleges and museums collectively known as 
Crossing from Greenwich Park, with its green grass, shrubs and trees, and swaths of daffodils when I was there, to Blackheath, at the top of the hill, is like crossing a boundary into another world. So-named because of its black soil, the 211.5 acres of protected common land is wild and loamy, a place where you can still, on occasion, see bats. In the eerie light of late afternoon, the village of Blackheath glowed in the near distance.
And it was there, on winding streets lined with Victorian and Georgian rowhouses, that I finally caught a glimpse of what I had eventually come to love about Southeast London all those years ago: It was its odd and interesting back corners, places that don’t appear on postcards, where my own imagination could take flight. Happily, in the magnificent, multilayered sprawl of London, such places still exist. But like all things, the neighborhoods that make up the great London patchwork quilt are ephemeral, especially now, as the immigrant communities of London wonder what the post-Brexit future will bring. Catch them while you can.
Near the IWM London of the Imperial War Museums, the 
In Vauxhall, at the 
In East Dulwich, 
In Brixton, 