
Britain’s vote to leave the European Union has led to intense soul-searching in that country’s cultural establishment. The New York Times asked five writers and theater professionals for their thoughts. In a sometimes heated email exchange last week, they debated whether it is too soon for artists to make art about “Brexit,” whether fiction has failed to capture social changes in Britain during the past 20 years, and what kind of art this historic moment might inspire. These are excerpts from the conversation.
The vote genuinely surprised me. Much like it did when Boris Johnson was elected as London mayor. It was a moment when a result I assumed was impossible, that I couldn’t really conceive of, became a reality. As an artist I try to imagine I have some sense of where the collective consciousness of the country is — that I have an idea, however vague, of what the general mood is. Both these results disproved that. They showed me how deluded I was to believe that. I didn’t know at all.
I moved to London from Istanbul years ago. London, with its cosmopolitan energy, urban memory, cultural openness, literary traditions, gender equality and freedom of expression, was everything I could not find in Istanbul. I travel quite a bit across Britain and Europe and I had been observing the discontent with E.U. and Brussels, as well as the dissatisfaction with the process of globalization. Many people today seem to think that sameness will bring safety. It’s heartbreaking to see how easily cosmopolitanism can be abandoned.
I’ve always felt an outsider in Britain and spent most of my working life in places all over the world. The Brexit vote only consolidates what I have long known — that Britain is no home to me.
If Brexit does change the relationship of writers to Britain, British literature might benefit. I’m reminded of that fabulous, albeit historically fundamentally garbled, ad-lib of Orson Welles in [the film] “The Third Man,” comparing the Borgias and Medicis and warring states of Renaissance Italy, with all its magnificent works of art, on the one hand, with, on the other, the 500 years of peaceful Switzerland and its contribution: the cuckoo clock.
British literature has been stagnant for at least two decades; British writers far too close to the establishment and more concerned with getting an invite onto a radio show or to the right dinner party than providing a critique of society. Orwell and Graham Greene would wince. And most of the decent literature comes into English through translation, aside from the postcolonial literature manifestly written for the white elites of London and curated by a buffer class of native informants designated by that same elite. The Brexit vote might well challenge the ruling complacency.
There are some kinds of art that can deal with this — with the whole steaming complexity of it — but I do think it needs time. Immediate reactions are important, but you can’t write a novel about it before this evening, for instance. Maybe not for a decade.
For people for whom the Brexit result is a shock, time will indeed have to pass in order to digest the result and reflect, before art can be made. But for those who regard it as a natural outcome of what came before, no such passage of time will be necessary. Tennis players know where the incoming ball will land long before it hits the ground.
Don’t get me wrong. I’m absolutely not saying that art shouldn’t or can’t engage with current affairs. But — and I can only speak for myself as an artist — I will need to consider the situation, learn and listen for a while before reflecting it or attempting to change it through my work. That might just be a few days or it could be years.
It is different for a director. A director doesn’t have to wait to respond to the social milieu in the same way a writer does. A writer has to be able to achieve a certain objectivity in order to craft his or her material. So I can see why some of the writers in this group want to wait. But, personally, I’m seeing Brexit in everything I’m currently planning to direct, in every play I read that I might direct. I’m interested in teasing out the contemporary issues in what I’m working on, however old the piece might be, whenever I’m working on it. That might mean that the piece might not directly have lines that specifically tackle Brexit. But I can somehow show the contemporary resonance in the way it is delivered to the audience.
I feel that art, somehow, has to be at the heart of what’s happening now. We need to relay stories. Ever more needed in moments when there is an atmosphere of extreme right politics gaining ground and people are looking for scapegoats.
To demand a response of that kind but with the speed of a tennis player hitting a ball is, to say the least, optimistic.
This week, my cousin and her 3-year-old faced a verbal racial assault in London outside the child’s playschool by a man in a van as he was driving away from them. The BBC has reported that incidents of hate crime have gone up by 500 percent since the vote. The victims of such abuse will largely be those who can least fight back.
The public funding we are used to expecting in this country can allow true creativity. If you are working in a publicly subsidized building then you have a responsibility to deliver truly interesting, risky, innovative, even provocative work. Work that speaks to your audience in many resonant ways. The priority is less about the financial rewards. The less subsidy we have, the more the “producers” take over and the “bottom line” becomes the raison d’être. That’s quite an unappealing landscape for artists.
Whenever I traveled in Europe after we confirmed our membership in the previous referendum, 