
It was fitting that the moment of clarity came at a border crossing.
As I got in the immigration line at Beijing Capital International Airport, I glanced at the Irish passport in my hand and saw two familiar words, newly precious, in gold letters: “European Union” in English, “An tAontas Eorpach” in Irish.
It was the day after news broke that Britain had voted to leave the European Union.
Just two generations ago, two European families — one Anglo-Irish, one German-Swedish — were at war with each other, literally.
As my father tells it, his father was the captain of a British Navy minesweeper in World War II, a job that required finding and blowing up mines laid by the navy of the Third Reich to disrupt shipments of war supplies from the United States to Britain. He survived.
My other grandfather was part of Germany’s industrial war effort, as the director of its biggest ball-bearings factory. His brother, my Onkel Egon, returned — alive — from the Battle of Stalingrad after driving a truck back to Germany with a small band of Wehrmacht survivors, one of them tied down, raving.
When my sister, brother and I were children, Onkel Egon was a curiosity to us because his wife, Tante Erika, drove him everywhere. Later we found out he had refused to touch a steering wheel for the rest of his life.
Add some French ancestry and there I was, a Pan-European like many others. As I looked at my passport in the line, I felt a surge of sadness that Britain might be leaving the “community of values” — of tolerance, transparency and democracy — that German Chancellor Angela Merkel talks about.
Born overseas and having lived most of my life in undemocratic or authoritarian societies, I see Europe as a place that contributes progressive social policies, excellent scholarship, the rule of law and, by and large, responsible political behavior to the world, qualities that people living in it perhaps don’t value as much as people living outside it.
As I made my way from Beijing to Munich to see my family, I talked with Europeans about “Brexit.” A flight attendant for a Swiss airline, an older German man returning from Portugal and a young German academic from Nuremberg expressed bewilderment. They said it was a pity.
In Munich, my friends and relatives shared the surprise and disappointment. They were puzzled why so many in Britain would choose a harder path in life, outside the common market.
If “Brexit” were to happen — several believed it wouldn’t — they would miss Britain’s quirky culture, its English-language presence in the bloc and its heft within the union as a (hitherto) rational ally for Germany in Brussels, they said.
They hoped that Germany would not go the same route.
“Our economy is doing so well now, and we still have people who think the same way,” a friend said, referring to “Brexit”-style critics of the European Union in Germany, like the right-wing populist 
Yet a taxi driver from the Steiermark (an Austrian state near Slovenia) who lives and works in Munich praised the vote, saying all European countries should do the same.
Switzerland was the model for everyone, he said, complaining about “foreigners” who got the same rights as “natives.” He wasn’t referring to Syrians and others fleeing war or poverty who are arriving in Europe in large numbers — he meant people from other European nations.
“You’re Austrian,” I said. “Aren’t you a foreigner, too?” He was silent.
I asked why he disliked the European Union. “They have so many rules for everything,” he said. An example? “I can’t think of any now,” he admitted.
In China, incomprehension has been a common reaction to the vote, as people mull why Britain would abandon such a deal and how a democracy might not deliver what is in a nation’s best interests.
If Britain leaves, Ireland and Malta will be the only two English-speaking nations in the bloc. Their numbers could swell a little, as some Britons with Irish ancestry apply for Irish passports, including students and parents at my son’s British international school in Beijing.
As I traveled back to China on Saturday, I looked at the passport in my hand and thought of my two grandfathers whose warring families became one peaceful one, and was glad for those gold letters spelling out “European Union.”