
LONDON — Having feared a 
A thickly painted Anselm Kiefer seascape with dark and choppy waters encapsulated the early mood on Monday night at the Phillips auction. It wound up selling to a telephone bidder for 2.4 million pounds, or about $3.2 million, four times the presale upper estimate.
But those results, of course, are relative. Compared with last year’s auctions at this time, totals overall were down by as much as 66 percent, largely because fewer lots were offered.
And while buyers are continuing to raise their paddles for prize works, like “Shift,” Jenny Saville’s painting of six female nudes, which sold for about $9.1 million at Sotheby’s, many collectors are sitting on their best pieces to wait out tumultuous world events like the Brexit vote or the American presidential election.
Others are deciding to sell privately with dealers, because of the decline in auction house guarantees, and so as not to risk a public failure at auction. And some are pulling their consignments, as the owner of a Gerhard Richter painting — with a presale estimate of $19 million — did just before Christie’s sale on Wednesday evening.
“We have transitioned from a bull run of a seller’s market into a more cautious buyer’s market, and the speed of transactions is slowing, which makes it more comfortable to both the buyers and the sellers to do deals more discreetly,” said Neal Meltzer, an art adviser in New York.
That slowing was evident going into the London sales at Sotheby’s, Christie’s and Phillips, which were all much smaller than usual — 116 lots in total, compared with 184 last summer — and no works estimated at over $10 million came to the auction block.
“I think what we’re going to find out is, is the art market a market?” said the American collector Donald Marron, who said he had bid unsuccessfully on a work at Christie’s on Wednesday evening. “In England, you have one big plus, which is the pound is cheaper. On the other hand, you have the big, unsettled situations which have influenced financial markets all over the world.”
“This is too small a sample to be sure,” he added. “High quality did well. So far so good.”
In light of this geopolitical turmoil, the competition for a work by a British painter, Ms. Saville, was considered a bright spot. “Good to see some British exports are still desirable,” the auctioneer Oliver Barker said wryly at 
The battle between four bidders for the monumental “Shift” — one of the most talked-about works in the landmark 1997-2000 exhibition “Sensation”: Young British Artists From the Saatchi Collection” — showed that the world’s wealthiest collectors still had an appetite for acquiring top-quality art, particularly when currency fluctuations hand them a hefty discount. The British pound had fallen more than 10 percent against the dollar since the British referendum.
The winning bid was more than three times the previous auction high for Ms. Saville. The lot was sold to Jen Hua, a Sotheby’s specialist taking telephone bids on behalf of the Long Museum in Shanghai. The museum, founded by the businessman Liu Yiqian and his wife, Wang Wei, is planning an exhibition of works by female artists, titled “She.”
“Buyers were from the U.S. and Asia,” said Reiner Opoku, an artists’ agent based in Berlin. “They saved money. The exchange rate was topping up their bidding.”
Helped by the $5.6 million paid for Keith Haring’s 1989 painting “The Last Rainforest” — also an auction high for the artist — and $4.2 million for Jean Dubuffet’s 1959 “Barbe de Lumière des Aveuglés,” Sotheby’s took in $69.4 million, just above the presale high estimate of $66.4 million. But that was 66 percent less than the $205 million at the equivalent sale last July.
The failure of certain works to attract substantive interest underlined perceptions that London might not be the place to sell contemporary trophies priced at more than $20 million.
“New York is seen to have more global, big-hitting buyers,” said Anthony McNerney, the director of contemporary art at Gurr Johns, an advisory company in London.
London’s mainstream contemporary auctions were also depleted by sellers keen to have their best works included in Christie’s 250th-anniversary-themed sale, “
That event raised $133.2 million from 31 lots, of which four failed to sell.
Henry Moore’s “Reclining Figure: Festival,” one of five bronzes based on a commission for the 1951 Festival of Britain, sold for a top price of $33 million — an auction high for a Moore — and Francis Bacon’s “Version No. 2 of Lying Figure With Hypodermic Syringe” (1968), took in $27 million.
The most expensive casualty of the night was Lucian Freud’s 1992 painting “Ib and her Husband,” which failed to sell against an ambitious estimate of $24 million.
But lower on the price scale, there was plenty of competition at Christie’s regular contemporary auction on Wednesday. The house found buyers for 92 percent of its 39 lots, with staff members based in Asia conspicuously active on telephones.
Elaine Holt, Christie’s director of Impressionist and Modern art in Hong Kong, took a successful telephone bid of $6.8 million on Jean-Michel Basquiat’s 1981 painting “Pork,” one of eight Basquiat works that the actor Johnny Depp sold at Christie’s. Still, the $52.8 million total was 65 percent lower than last summer’s figure.
“The market was strong, considering the quality of the material was not that good,” said François Odermatt, a collector based in Montreal. “Brexit seemed to have no effect or even be a booster.
“It was encouraging to see a lot of action from Asia,” Mr. Odermatt continued.
At 
In perhaps a sign of the times, there were 17 more head shots of Phillips staff members in the catalog than there were works in the actual sale.
“There’s a supply-and-demand issue at the moment,” said Hugo Nathan, a co-founder of Beaumont Nathan, an art advisory company based in London. “Sellers aren’t confident. They’re affected by uncertainty. But the buyers are still there.”