
LONDON — In Birmingham, 
Expletive-laced graffiti was scrawled on the front of a Polish community center in London.
Far-right protesters in Newcastle displayed banners saying, “Stop immigration, begin repatriation.”
Less than a week after a referendum on British membership in the European Union, which galvanized fears about untrammeled immigration into the country, human rights advocates and leading politicians expressed alarm that the vote had given license to xenophobia, unleashing hatred among an economic underclass.
Although the police in at least two major cities said they had not recorded an increase in hate crimes after the vote, there were concerns that anti-immigrant sentiment was now rippling through British society and infecting daily life.
During the referendum, the “Leave” campaign effectively stoked fears of an immigrant influx to garner support, and the baiting of refugees was further fanned by concerns about terrorism, 
They also conflated legal immigrants to Britain from Europe with refugees from Syria, Iraq and elsewhere, portraying them as storming the country’s shores and threatening the country’s economy and security.
The free movement of workers across the bloc is a cornerstone of membership in the European Union, and proponents of a British exit, or “
Although Britain has traditionally marginalized any party to the right of the Conservative Party, UKIP won 13 percent of the vote in 2015 general elections, and its railing against immigrants was seen as a decisive factor in the referendum.
For some, the racist taunts of the past few days recalled a time when jackbooted members of the far-right National Front taunted immigrants on the streets of Britain in the 1980s, during the painful deindustrialization of the Thatcher era.
It brought back bad memories of the 1980s, he said, when he and his family were hounded out of their home by members of the far-right group and sought police protection.
“The normally primordial murmur from the racist swamp has now been released, and people feel empowered to say things they wouldn’t have said before last week,” he said. “I have never heard so many people tell me to go back to Africa as I have heard in the past few days.”
Others took to Twitter to convey their shock. Jamie Pohotsky, a screenwriter from Boston, 
Politicians across the political spectrum — including Prime Minister David Cameron; Boris Johnson, the former London mayor and high-profile Leave campaigner; and his successor, Sadiq Khan — spoke out against intolerance on Monday.
“Let’s remember these people have come here and made a wonderful contribution to our country,” Mr. Cameron told Parliament. “And we will not stand for hate crime or these kinds of attacks.”
“During the campaign there was a deliberate tactic by the Leave camp to create alarm among elements of the population who have suffered from austerity, and this alarmism is now spilling over,” he said. “The far right can only do well in periods of crisis, and the Brexit vote created a new and dangerous chapter of British history.”
Mr. Grover, who immigrated to Britain from Kenya and founded the Monitoring Group in 1981 after he was 
Nevertheless, the West Midlands police, which are responsible for law enforcement in Birmingham, a multicultural city with a large Muslim population, said that reports of 10 hate crimes a day over the past three days were in line with the daily average over the past three months, and the police in London reported no unusual increase in reported hate crimes.
Among those targeted in recent days were members of Britain’s large Polish community, which constitutes the largest number of foreign-born residents in Britain after Indians — 790,000 people, according to the latest data from the 
“London is a melting pot and you don’t expect this kind of thing,” said 
Scotland Yard is investigating the vandalism, but no arrests have been made.
In Huntingdon, a town in Cambridgeshire, north of the capital, the police said they were investigating reports from members of the Polish community that offensive leaflets were left on cars near a school as well as on several properties.
The Polish Embassy in London called on Polish nationals to report attacks to the police. “We are shocked and deeply concerned by the recent episodes of xenophobic abuse directed against members of the Polish community and other U.K. residents of migrant heritage,” it said in a 
Rights groups said that the anti-immigrant backlash appeared to be at least partly fueled by a misconception that European Union citizens were required to leave the country after the vote. Mr. Cameron and Mr. Johnson both emphasized on Monday that “there will be no immediate changes in their circumstances.”
“This is not the post-Brexit Britain we want to see,” she wrote.