
BEIJING — “The trouble with committing political suicide is that you live to regret it,” Christopher F. Patten, the last British colonial governor of Hong Kong, 
To continue the motif: Like any suicide, a “Brexit’’ would hurt others, too. There may be special meaning for Hong Kong, which returned to Chinese rule on July 1, 1997, after 156 years of rule from London.
Attention in Hong Kong has mostly focused on the economic impact on the territory. Hong Kong’s 
Yet, could a shrunken economy and greater political isolation, possible outcomes if Britain withdrew from the European Union, also cause Britain’s voice in Hong Kong affairs to slip?
Britain has a right to speak out on Hong Kong affairs until 2047, when the 
In the Joint Declaration, China agreed that Hong Kong would retain a high degree of autonomy and its capitalist financial and legal systems for 50 years. “The current social and economic systems in Hong Kong will remain unchanged, and so will the lifestyle,” the Joint Declaration says.
“Because of the Joint Declaration, the British government has a legitimate interest in Hong Kong; for example, in its democratic development,” Mr. Chan said.
The Joint Declaration was the basis of the Basic Law, Hong Kong’s mini-Constitution, which promised Hong Kong “gradual and orderly progress” toward greater democracy, though in vague terms.
So while China can — and does — tell the United States not to interfere in Hong Kong’s internal affairs, a common Chinese complaint against nations that press for greater human rights in China, “it cannot tell the British,” Mr. Chan said.
Recent episodes such as the alleged abduction by mainland security agents of 
Yet, 
“Much depends on how committed is the U.K. to upholding the Joint Declaration, and how fast it can move and hard it can work to pressurize Beijing,” Mr. Ho said in an interview.
“Now I don’t think the U.K. has in the past been working very hard, in the sense that it would be very strongly committed to upholding the Joint Declaration, even at the expense of its relationship with China,” he said.
“I always think the British always put its economic interest with China above its obligation” to Hong Kong, he said.
A front-page 
“The Chinese-British ‘Golden Age’ won’t change because of Britain leaving the European Union,” the commentary said, referring to the close ties that Prime Minister David Cameron has built with China, but it warned: “At the same time, the voices defaming Chinese-British relations are stirring, ready to make trouble.”
But this week also brought a new tone to those ties, with Conservative members of Parliament releasing a 
Either way, Mr. Ho doubts Britain’s commitment to protecting Hong Kong’s freedoms.
“After all, they are just making comments in the Parliament,’’ he said. “Nothing more, no actual measures, including exercising diplomatic pressure on China.”
“Whereas the U.S. can always flex its muscles in readjusting the trade relationship with Hong Kong,’’ he said, “the U.K. has no such instrument nor is it committed.”