
WASHINGTON — Since more than 17 million people voted for Britain to 
If you’re struggling to keep up with what’s happened and flummoxed by the seemingly fraught future, you’re not alone. Here’s a reading list to help you understand what’s going on and why, whether you’re just trying to grasp the basics or have been following all along but seek a deeper understanding.
Before the vote, my colleague Steven Erlanger wrote a 
“
And for a post-vote explainer, check out “
My colleague Peter S. Goodman said it best: “
The BBC offers a 
If the British government curbs immigration after the country leaves the European Union, a prime promise of the “Leave” campaign, that could further worsen the financial picture. 
That’s a complicated question. “
Ambrose Evans-Pritchard, a business editor at The Daily Telegraph, a British newspaper, wrote an 
Stripped of distractions, it comes down to an elemental choice: whether to restore the full self-government of this nation, or to continue living under a higher supranational regime, ruled by a European Council that we do not elect in any meaningful sense, and that the British people can never remove, even when it persists in error.
Of course, having won, some who voted to leave are now 
Perhaps because elites embarked on a project to remake Europe without checking if their citizens were on board with the plan, suggested Donald Tusk, the president of the European Council, in a 
The German philosopher Jürgen Habermas made 
This isn’t a new problem. The New York Review of Books published an 
For if we look to European Union as a catchall solution, chanting “Europe” like a mantra, and waving the banner of “Europe” in the face of recalcitrant “nationalist” heretics, we may wake up one day to find that far from solving the problems of our Continent, the myth of “Europe” has become an impediment to recognizing them.
Yes and no, my colleague Sarah Lyall explains in 
Separated from the Continent by language, tradition, historic antagonism and an inhospitable body of water, Britain has always seemed to be an uneasy participant in the wider European project. It took years to sign up, and its agreement was always marked by caveats and exceptions to the rules. Even when it did join, it felt to many Britons as if someone had given a British pub owner a bunch of fancy French Champagne bottles and said, “Here, use these for your British ale from now on.” The trappings might be different, but the beer is still the same.
For a more personal look at Britons’ sense of separateness from Europe — even for those who long for all “the Continent” has to offer — consider Peter Mayle’s 1989 memoir “
The vote has 
But the bigger consequence might be that the vote 
And by voting to leave, the English have “planted a bomb” under the Irish peace process, the columnist 
American commentators have been quick to draw parallels between the Leave campaign and that of Donald J. Trump. At Slate, 
In New York magazine, 
And in 