
BRUSSELS — How do you like your leaders? Dashing? Fired up? Sober and controlled? At European Union summit meetings, 28 leaders project competing versions of what it means to be in charge as the bloc falters. Some examples of the stagecraft that will be on display at the next summit talks, beginning Thursday:
Ms. Merkel, the chancellor of Germany, projects a managerial efficiency at summit meetings with a style that borders on flavorless. She enters briefings rapidly, steps purposefully onto a dais, and settles into a modern, high-backed office chair. Behind her is a giant map of Europe dotted with yellow stars representing the bloc’s 28 capital cities, and underscoring Germany’s decades-long mission to further integration. There is a hush as journalists parse the words of the leader of the group’s most powerful country. The atmosphere can occasionally turn reverent, as when 
Mr. Bettel has generated outsized publicity for himself and his tiny country by turning up in a variety of fashionable scarves. The habit has even prompted a parody Twitter account, 
Mr. Fico’s briefings include a backdrop with an image of his country that seems several sizes larger than its neighbors. During news conferences, he often responds in Slovak to questions posed in English — even though he speaks English well. Such gestures serve the nationalist streak he is known for, though it has lessened since his country took over the rotating presidency of the European Union council in July.
Lest you forget that France is a military power, Mr. Hollande is shadowed at briefings by a uniformed aide-de-camp who carries the codes for the country’s nuclear arsenal. To the left of the presidential podium is a plaque displaying an ax and shield — 
Mr. Tsipras is the only male leader at summit meetings without a necktie. The choice is widely seen as a way of maintaining his anti-establishment credentials with restive Greek voters. His communications are calculated, too. Although he is frequently in the spotlight, Mr. Tsipras is among those who give the fewest briefings. He prefers to make precooked statements in both Greek and English at the start and finish of meetings, then turn on his heels and head for the exit.
Mr. Renzi, who will arrive at this week’s summit meeting fresh off his 
Ms. Grybauskaite has a black belt in American karate, and she gives short, punchy responses in English — both on camera and on Twitter. That has made her the go-to leader for candid comments about the existential challenges facing the bloc. Two years ago, 
While Union Jacks flanked David Cameron at briefings in Brussels, the European Union flag was barely visible — a sign of how reluctant British leaders have been to promote the group. Mr. Cameron’s unflashy successor, Theresa May, will make her summit debut on Thursday; Mr. Cameron stepped down after his country voted to leave the bloc in June. She is expected to say that the union can thrive without Britain, partly as a tactic to lay groundwork for a favorable departure package. Whether such an overture will include making the European Union flag more prominent remains to be seen.