
Anyone trying to explain Britain’s decision to exit the European Union must consider the country’s economy, its citizens’ attitudes toward immigration, its generational divides and the 
But there is another force to consider, too: the role of the world’s most influential social media platforms — Facebook, in particular. More than 33 million people in Britain use Facebook each month, according to estimates by eMarketer, a research company.
A few data points about the vast online conversation before the vote suggest that the people supporting the “leave” campaign were far more engaged on the issue than their opponents on social media.
Using data pulled from CrowdTangle, a social media analytics firm that has a partnership with Facebook, The New York Times ranked Facebook pages that had the most engagement — how many people liked, shared and commented on posts — around the term “European Union” over the last 30 days.
Seven of the top 20 pages with the most engagement around “European Union,” including the top two, were explicitly pro-exit. Together, these seven pages produced more than 1.3 million interactions — including the page for Nigel Farage, a leading proponent of the “leave” campaign, at No. 6.
Only two pages — those of the group Britain Stronger in Europe, No. 8, and the British Prime Minister David Cameron, No. 18 — were clearly associated with “remain” campaigns, and together, they accounted for just under 150,000 interactions.
A search for “Brexit,” the widely used shorthand for the vote, produced a similar ranking. Other top pages included British and American news organizations that had broad news coverage, as well as pro-leave and pro-remain opinion columns.
An analysis of two opposing campaign pages underscores the wide gap in reader activity. By Friday, a primary page for the “remain” campaign, Britain Stronger in Europe, had passed 558,000 followers. Its close counterpart — Leave. EU — led in followers, at just over 767,000. But the pages’ total engagement figures, which approximate total conversations around all their posts, were far more disparate.
Over the last six months, posts on “remain” pages resulted in more than 3.3 million interactions — that is likes, shares and comments — averaging about 475,000 a month. The “leave” page produced more than 11 million, or about three times as many.
Between these groups, the official “leave” message, in other words, landed harder and most likely spread further on Facebook by a large margin.
This month, Vyacheslav Polonski, a researcher at the Oxford Internet Institute, published a study of Brexit campaigns’ activity on Instagram. Mr. Polonski analyzed the activities of over 15,000 users who engaged in the referendum debate.
“We’ve noted that E.U. skeptics and Brexit supporters dominate the debate and are more effective in their use of Instagram for activating and mobilizing people across the country,” he 
As for Twitter, the analytics firm Talkwalker noted a substantial lead in leave-related hashtags over remain-related hashtags 
Social media, by nature, is both a catalyst and a place for conversation. As such, the apparent dominance of pro-leave posts on Facebook and Instagram is neither a pure reflection of popular will nor a product of the services, but more likely something in between.
A full picture of voter sentiment on social media is visible only to the social media companies themselves. And the rate at which sharing and engaging on a social media platform translates into action is difficult to quantify.
Leave. EU left little up to chance. “SHARE IF YOU CARE,” it wrote in a post published two hours before the polls closed across Britain. “Make sure you vote NOW before it’s too late,” read a post an hour later.