
I’m British. I’m European. I’m American. I’m that transnational child often in the news these days.
I was born in Washington in the late 1980s, grew up in Brussels, moved to London and then returned to the United States, where I lived in New York City; Providence, R.I.; and San Francisco.
My parents are English. My first language was French. I went to a Belgian school and the 
My childhood was defined by endless car journeys across Europe. And as an adult, I have enjoyed the benefits of cheap deals on low-cost European airlines. Most of my friends have gone to school and worked in at least two European countries. I am part of the 
The shocking outcome of the British referendum — a 
Judging by my friends’ reaction on social media, I’m not alone.
The “Brexit” vote on June 23 was the most serious geopolitical event for Europe since the 
But this vote was also a rejection by my fellow countrymen, from my parents’ generation to mine, of everything I cherished about Europe, Britain and my own childhood: the sense that our differences were less important than our shared experiences. We could travel across an old and cultured Continent, have access to jobs in 27 other countries, and make friends from all over.
It was an upsetting but eye-opening result that has taught me some important lessons.
First, it has served as a wake-up call for British youth. Democracies are about rights and responsibilities. But my generation failed to turn up. Only 36 percent of eligible voters ages 18 to 24 and 58 percent of those 25 to 34 went to the polls, compared with more than 80 percent of eligible voters 55 and older. If we want our world to reflect our values and beliefs, we are going to have to engage and vote.
Second, this was a reminder that we live in an era when political campaigns spread much disinformation, often through the news and social media. Throughout the referendum campaign, the Leave camp engaged in scaremongering, particularly about immigration and offered false promises about a financial windfall.
It promised that a decision to leave the European Union would enable Britain to swiftly reduce immigration from other parts of Europe. A windfall of 350 million pounds a week, or about $462 million, in British contributions to the bloc could be redirected to the 
How, I ask myself, did so many people believe these promises, and why was there not more pushback from my generation? Where was Generation Y?
My third and most important lesson: The benefits of globalization aren’t universal, and even if they are positive, they aren’t well understood. This was, at its core, a communication failure. For the well educated and privileged, European Union membership has been a boon. But for others, globalization has been very different. In certain British communities, there is a sense that immigration from Central and Eastern Europe has driven down wages and strained public services. But there is little understanding in those communities that European Union money has, in many cases, brought jobs, like the Nissan factory in Sunderland.
Democracies can survive, and thrive, when communities connect. There has to be a collective sense that we are in this together. This has clearly eroded in Britain and across Europe. But with this vote, we all stand to lose something. We let down our European family. We closed the door on opportunities.
I want future generations to have the same opportunities I have had. To enjoy the richness of diverse and integrated cultures. To build friendships across borders. This vote has been, for me, a call to action. It has been a valuable lesson to recognize that I need to participate, communicate and connect with others, just as my parents and grandparents did.