
CLACTON-ON-SEA, Britain — Meet some of the men and women who sank Europe. They are playing a game called the Claw on Clacton Pier. They put a coin into the machine and try to grab one of the brightly colored, rather menacing puppets at the bottom. Their children look on, anxiously.
In Clacton-on-Sea, a resort town on the Essex coast, there are no pro-Europeans or anti-Europeans, only different shades of dislike. With an aging, overwhelmingly white and British population, it is considered the most Euroskeptic town in Britain. Nearly 70 percent of its voters elected to leave the European Union on June 23. It doesn’t matter that the European Union regulations provided the incentive to make Clacton-on-Sea’s sea swimmable again.
Before the referendum, Clacton’s claim to fame was a spectacular, weekend-long riot between rival gangs of Mods and Rockers over Easter weekend of 1964. More recently it made headlines with the election in 2014 of Douglas Carswell, the only member of Parliament from the nationalist, Euroskeptic U.K. Independence Party.
I met him on the main street just before the referendum. He was handing out leaflets that proclaimed “Today is polling day!” though he informed voters that it was actually the next day. He told students not to worry if they were cut off from European universities, “as the best ones are in England anyway.” He was one of the Leave campaign’s most enthusiastic supporters and told me that his side would win.
This is a part of England that most English people — and almost all foreigners — ignore. That’s why so many of us were surprised by the referendum’s result. This is a nation that feels left behind — by political parties, by globalization, by immigration, by the new social customs. It’s a nation afraid of the future, one that never came to terms with Europe and its strange habits in the first place. It’s easier to find a sea gull than a bidet in the bathroom of the Pink Palace Hotel, where they play 
In the past, until holidays in the sun became affordable, London’s working class brought its children here to spend their summers digging for worms and making sand castles on the beach. For Dad, there were the pubs; for Mum, bingo on the boardwalk. Today this white, conservative segment of society flies to Spain and the Canary Islands. The only foreigners here are workers, mainly doing construction and plumbing jobs, from Poland and elsewhere in Eastern Europe. The locals are not happy about that either. They say the Europeans are here to steal their jobs and mooch off the welfare system. “Out!” they say at the Moon and Starfish pub facing the pier.
Eastbourne, on the Sussex coast, is a different place. Like Clacton, it is mostly white: more than 92 percent. And like Clacton, it voted Leave. Out of 53,598 ballots counted, 30,700 were for quitting the European Union. That’s 57 percent, close to the nationwide percentage of people over 65 who voted Leave.
But Eastbourne is closer to London, both literally and emotionally, and a more genteel sort of place. George Orwell lived here for a while. Marx and Engels vacationed in its Victorian hotels. In 1905 Claude Debussy retreated here with his lover to the Grand Hotel, where he finished composing “La Mer.” Theresa May, the Conservative politician who is now considered Britain’s most likely next prime minister, was born here in 1956. Today the town is full of retired people in search of better air and cheaper housing, day-trippers from London and hordes of foreign students, here to learn English. In the summer of 1972, I was one of them, experimenting with the mysterious food (like “beans on toast”) and competing with the local skinheads for the attentions of Scandinavian girls. At the time, Britain was months away from joining the European Economic Community. And it is now almost back out again.
But it is not 1972. Someone should inform the old folks who are everywhere in Eastbourne, sharing the seats on the promenade with huge, fearless sea gulls — an army of unpaid, gray-haired sentinels sitting in front of the Channel, facing the Continent. Not all of them dislike foreigners. Ken and Barbara have been married 48 years and would like to see more of them here, “to bring some action to the place.” Vince Floridis, owner of the Athens restaurant, is very unhappy about the result. For him, it confirms that the British do hate immigrants. “I know — I was one of them. I came from Cyprus when I was 8,” he whispered. He is in his mid-60s and has a signed picture of Brian May, the lead guitarist of Queen, on the wall.
In Eastbourne and Clacton, one should understand that it wasn’t fear, or anger, that brought so many English to vote for Brexit on June 23. It was nostalgia.
Nostalgia for when they knew it would always be roast beef and Yorkshire pudding on the menu, not tapas. Nostalgia for smoking — and no kids — in pubs; for apples and pears weighed in pounds, not olives in grams. For red phone boxes and the green pound note. For front doors left open and front steps scrubbed clean. Nostalgia for a time when English was the only language, and too bad if you couldn’t speak it. And for the days when you could bring your own food, your bicycle and your dog onto Eastbourne Pier — now all banned by its new owner, Sheikh Abid Gulzar. Nostalgia for a self-sufficient, cozy Little England that is long gone.
But they don’t seem to realize that nothing, not even voting to leave the European Union, can bring it back.