
LONDON — 
Mr. Johnson has 
And that was only this spring.
In December, he 
So it was with no little shock that the world reacted to the news Wednesday evening that Britain’s new prime minister, Theresa May, had 
Informed of the appointment, the State Department’s spokesman 
Putting Mr. Johnson — whose 
His defenders argue that for all of his verbal daggers, Mr. Johnson is at heart a liberal internationalist. He was born in New York City, grew up partly in Brussels, speaks French and Russian, and sprinkles his sentences with Latin phrases. He is a polymath who studied at Eton and Oxford, and was a prolific 
As London’s mayor — from 2008 until May of this year — Mr. Johnson proved to be both popular and canny, presiding over a successful Olympic Games in 2012, improving public transportation (the city’s shared-cycling program is still informally known as “Boris Bikes”) and traveling the world to raise the city’s profile as a capital of commerce and finance.
Here, however, are some of Mr. Johnson’s memorable utterances that may shadow him in his new role as Britain’s top diplomat.
When Mr. Obama urged Britons in April to remain in the European Union, Mr. Johnson was not amused. In a 
Asked on Wednesday evening if he planned to apologize to Mr. Obama, Mr. Johnson replied: “The United States of America will be at the front of the queue.” (That might have been a nod to Mr. Obama’s warning that Britain would be at the “
As a columnist for The Telegraph — a job for which he has 
transcript
(SOUNDBITE) (English) LONDON MAYOR, BORIS JOHNSON, SAYING:

“Well I think Donald Trump is clearly out of his mind if he thinks that is an acceptable and sensible way to proceed. You can’t ban people going to the United States in that way, or indeed to any country.”

(SOUNDBITE) (English) LONDON MAYOR, BORIS JOHNSON, SAYING:

“I would invite him to come and see the whole of London and take him round the city, except I wouldn’t want to expose Londoners to any unecessary risk of meeting Donald Trump.”

(SOUNDBITE) (English) LONDON MAYOR, BORIS JOHNSON, SAYING:

“I certainly think that he is out of his mind if he thinks that there are parts of London that are too dangerous to go to. As I say I think it portrays an ignorance that is truly alarming in a candidate that has got that far in the race to be president of the United States.”
Asked about a proposal by Donald J. Trump, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, to bar Muslims from entering the United States, Mr. Johnson responded that Mr. Trump was “
As to Mr. Trump’s suggestion that parts of London were so overrun with radicalized Muslims that they were no-go areas for police officers, Mr. Johnson 
transcript
ALFRETON, DERBYSHIRE, ENGLAND, UNITED KINGDOM (MAY 16, 2016) (UK POOL - ACCESS ALL)
(SOUNDBITE) (English) FORMER MAYOR OF LONDON, BORIS JOHNSON, SAYING:
“We had it under the Roman Empire - they did it very often with extreme force. The EU is a different proposition - but it fundamentally comes from that idea that you can unify Europe. My problem with that is, it hasn’t been done by consent.”
//
HECKLER FROM AUDIENCE OFF CAMERA INTERUPTS:
“Adolf Hitler was not talking about unifying Europe though - he was talking about conquering Europe and wiping out half of its population. It’s not the same thing as unifying Europe, is it?”
//
(SOUNDBITE) (English) FORMER MAYOR OF LONDON, BORIS JOHNSON, SAYING:
“As I say - you persist in trying to drag the subject back to previous attempts to unify Europe. What I’m talking about is what is going on now and it is deeply, anti-democratic.”
In May, Mr. Johnson 
Donald Tusk, the president of the European Council, said Mr. Johnson had “crossed the boundaries of rational discourse.” But Jacob Rees-Mogg, a Conservative lawmaker, defended the remarks as “absolutely true.” While Hitler and Napoleon wanted to create a single European power through violence, he said, “the E.U. is trying to do it by stealth.”
In May, Mr. Johnson 
Mr. Johnson’s tongue-in-cheek poem, for which he was awarded £1,000, was widely circulated on Twitter:
Mr. Johnson has offended people from central Africa to Southeast Asia (
In 2002, criticizing a trip by Tony Blair, then prime minister, to the Democratic Republic of Congo, Mr. Johnson 
In 2006, describing his own party, Mr. Johnson 
No one can accuse Mr. Johnson of lacking competitive spirit. In October, during a trade mission to Japan, Mr. Johnson was invited to take part in a friendly game of rugby. He may have been overly enthusiastic. 
Mr. Johnson later used the 
Warming to his own spin, Mr. Johnson added that his theme that night was “the possibility that confidence can suddenly and unexpectedly return.”