
European leaders met in Brussels on Wednesday, but Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain was sent home early.
Here’s what is happening today in “Brexit” news:
• 
European leaders expressed alarm: Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany said there would be economic consequences to an exit; Dalia Grybauskaite, the president of Lithuania, said “we all need to wake up and smell the coffee”; and Prime Minister Charles Michel of Belgium called Britain’s vote to withdraw “a wake-up alarm.”
Britain will have to negotiate the terms of its divorce, but only after it formally files the separation papers — a task Mr. Cameron has left to his successor.
• 
Boris Johnson, the former London mayor and a leader of the campaign to leave the European Union, is the favorite, but other possible candidates 
And during the 
“It might be in my party’s interest for him to sit there. It’s not in the national interest,” Mr. Cameron thundered. “
transcript
1. SOUNDBITE (English) Jeremy Corbyn, leader of the opposition Labour Party
“The number of children living in poverty has jumped by 200,000 in a year to a total now... a disgraceful total of 3.9 million children in this country living in poverty. Does he (Cameron) not think he should at the very least apologise?”
//
SOUNDBITE (English) David Cameron, UK Prime Minister
“He (Corbyn) asks about poverty. There are 300,000 fewer people in relative poverty since 2010, half a million fewer people in absolute poverty since 2010. Look, if he’s looking for excuses about why the side he and I were on about the referendum, frankly he should look somewhere else. And I have to say to the honourable gentleman, he talks about job insecurity and my two months to go... it might be in my party’s interest for him to sit there. It’s not in the national interest. And I would say: ‘For heaven’s sake, man, go!’”
(Mr. Cameron’s comment seems to be a nod to remarks by Oliver Cromwell in April 1653, when, having lost patience with Parliament, he said: “You have sat too long here for any good you have been doing. Depart, I say, and let us have done with you. In the name of God, go!”)
•
Most London voters favored staying in the European Union. At the protest, the mood was one of frustration. Will Hudson, a 30-year-old management consultant, said he felt he had to “be out on the streets.” Dominic Boyce, a 25-year-old drummer, said he “felt let down by humanity.” And Stephen Lock, a 64-year-old business consultant, described it as a “total tragedy.”
The FTSE 100 index appears to have recovered all of its Brexit-related losses. After falling sharply in the wake of the referendum result announcement Friday morning, the 