
LONDON — British cultural organizations and prominent figures in theater, dance and film reacted with dismay after Britain voted to leave the European Union. But as with many British industries and institutions, uncertainty prevails over what withdrawal will mean.
People who make their living in the arts had been strong supporters of the Remain campaign, with a survey of members of the Creative Industries Federation showing that 96 percent backed Britain’s membership in the European Union.
“First time I’ve ever felt ashamed and embarrassed to be British … And soon we may have no UK either?” the choreographer Matthew Bourne 
Michael Ryan, the chairman of the Independent Film and Television Alliance, 
“This decision has just blown up our foundation — as of today, we no longer know how our relationships with co-producers, financiers and distributors will work, whether new taxes will be dropped on our activities in the rest of Europe or how production financing is going to be raised without any input from European funding agencies,” he added.
Between 2007 and 2015, a European Union program provided nearly $145 million to Britain’s film, television and games industry, according to an 
The money helps finance production budgets, distribution and film festivals. Co-production, a relatively straightforward endeavor governed by a European convention, could become a far more complicated legal process. The British exit from the European Union is likely to affect the subsidies that both British and cinemas on the Continent receive to show films from member countries.
Dance is also likely to be severely affected. Alistair Spalding, the artistic director of Sadler’s Wells Theater, a major dance house in London, said the theater had received about $550,000 from the European Union program over the past five years.
“The money is for collaborative projects that involve cross-European relationships,” Mr. Spalding said. “These are important and enhance our programs, but are also part of bigger Pan-European collaborations that are now unlikely to happen.”
Mr. Spalding said the extent to which visas and work permits would become a problem was unclear.
“Dance companies are extremely multinational, and at the moment, no one from Europe needs anything to perform in Britain,” he said. “I suspect at some point there is going to be a process for work permits, and that is a big burden of time and cost, and is a discouraging factor. It may be that directors are simply unable to employ the people they want.”
He added that economic uncertainty was another major concern for Sadler’s Wells, and dance in general. “We are very dependent on donors, and 90 percent of our income is vulnerable to economic ups and downs, so that is actually a big worry,” Mr. Spalding said.
In a recent interview, Nicholas Serota, the director of the Tate art museums, mentioned that he, too, was worried about the impact that a withdrawal from the European Union might have on the Tate’s ability to employ the best curators from all over Europe.
“It is too early to say how the result of the referendum will affect Tate,” he said in a statement on Friday. “However, our mission remains unaffected, and Tate has a responsibility to promote public interest in modern and contemporary art from across the world.”
The office of John Whittingdale, the secretary of state for culture, media and sport, who openly supported Britain’s exit from the European Union, declined an interview request on Friday.