
LONDON — David Cameron left office this month with habitual grace, noting wistfully that “I was the future once.” But for many, his legacy after six years as British prime minister is thin.
It’s not just that he lost an 
But Mr. Cameron became so consumed with the Brexit debate — 
There are few accomplishments from Mr. Cameron’s year with a parliamentary majority.
Instead, important decisions about Britain’s future were evaded or postponed, kicked down the road for a post-referendum future that for Mr. Cameron and his Sancho Panza, the former chancellor of the Exchequer, George Osborne, never arrived.
For all the talk about austerity, Mr. Cameron and Mr. Osborne delivered 
Mr. Cameron pointed to Britain’s economic growth, but it was slowing, and the uncertainty surrounding Britain’s future relationship with the European Union is expected to shave one percentage point off the growth rate that had been forecast for next year.
That will put even more pressure on the British budget as tax receipts fall, requiring the new prime minister, Theresa May, to make further cuts, raise taxes or eliminate some of the tax benefits that Mr. Cameron and Mr. Osborne provided the wealthy and retirees at the expense of the young and poor.
But there are other areas of significant neglect, especially regarding infrastructure. The rail system is deteriorating, but the most egregious example is the well-established 
Greater London has not had a new runway for about 70 years. The tale of whether Heathrow, at 98 percent capacity, will get a third runway or whether ramshackle Gatwick, also near capacity, will get a second one has become almost mythic.
Heathrow handles 75 million passengers a year and Gatwick about 40 million, yet Mr. Cameron failed to decide where to expand.
The last Labour government endorsed a third runway at Heathrow in early 2009, expecting it to be operational in 2015. But many Conservatives and Liberal Democrats elected from southeastern districts near Heathrow opposed the plan, including Mr. Cameron.
When he became prime minister in 2010, Mr. Cameron stopped the planned Heathrow expansion, instead calling for a new study, led by the economist Howard Davies. A year ago, after three years of study — getting Mr. Cameron safely past the May 2015 election — Mr. Davies backed a third runway at Heathrow, with Gatwick judged a poor alternative.
But with London mayoral elections and the Brexit vote clearly on his mind — the former London mayor, Boris Johnson, whom Mr. Cameron had hoped to keep on his side in the fight to keep Britain in the European Union, also opposed Heathrow — Mr. Cameron abandoned his promise to decide by this summer and called for yet another study.
The shocking referendum result and Mr. Cameron’s sudden resignation have now left the entire matter up in the air.
With Mrs. May consumed with the aftermath of the referendum result, there is no hint of when or if a decision will be made.
Of course, with lower growth, pressure on the airports may diminish slightly. And publishers benefit, as both airports continue to buy advertisements promoting themselves for an extra runway that surely, one day, a British government will find the necessary will to authorize.