
Matthias Müller, the chief executive of Volkswagen, has revved up the company’s profit engine more quickly than expected. VW, Europe’s largest carmaker, is reeling from manipulating emissions in 11 million diesel vehicles but nevertheless managed to crank out an operating profit (before one-offs) of around 4.4 billion euros — about $4.9 billion — in the second quarter. That was a fifth more than a year earlier and roughly €1 billion above analysts’ expectations.
This gives Volkswagen a much-needed financial cushion to meet the rising costs of the emissions scandal. The company, which is based in Wolfsburg, said on July 20 that it had earmarked an additional €2.2 billion, or $2.4 billion, mainly to cover such outlays. This is on top of €16.2 billion ($17.8 billion) in provisions already booked for 2015. A settlement with United States authorities and customers announced in June costs $15.3 billion, but the company faces a flurry of additional lawsuits in the United States and elsewhere.
The second-quarter earnings surprise is a sign that Mr. Müller’s cost-cutting is working. Adding up all his planned measures would imply annual cost reductions of at least €8 billion through 2025. The biggest concern is the lackluster profitability of its core brand VW cars, which began losing money in the final quarter of 2015. Analysts at the advisory firm Evercore ISI estimate that the brand’s operating margin has rebounded, to around 3 percent.
The problem is that Volkswagen’s recovery is likely to slow soon because of events beyond Mr. Müller’s control. Britain, Europe’s second-largest vehicle market, is heading for a sharp slowdown after the June 23 vote to leave the European Union. This will weigh on the eurozone’s tepid recovery and damp demand for new cars across the Continent. Deutsche Bank analysts expect vehicle sales in Britain to fall 12 percent in 2017, and they cut their forecast for the wider European market by two-thirds, to just 1 percent next year. Such a downturn would hit Volkswagen particularly hard. As Europe’s market leader, the company produces almost every fourth car sold in the region. Shareholders can expect more problems for the company.