
LONDON — The poster, circulated by a group advocating
But on Sunday, days after the shocking killing of the lawmaker 
“When I saw that poster, I shuddered,” Michael Gove, the nation’s justice secretary and a leader of the group Vote Leave, told the BBC on Sunday, criticizing the man who approved it: 
“I thought it was the wrong thing to do,” Mr. Gove said.
Britons will vote Thursday on whether to stay in the European Union, but the referendum campaign was suspended until Sunday after the death of Ms. Cox three days earlier. She was shot and stabbed outside a public library in Birstall, where she had been scheduled to meet with constituents.
The attack has prompted soul-searching about the aggressive tone of the debate over the 
transcript
NA
The plebiscite is the first in more than four decades on the European issue, and migration has been one of the most effective arguments of those who want to quit, including Mr. Gove.
They argue that, as part of a bloc that guarantees the right of workers to move freely throughout all member states, Britain has little say over who can enter the country.
However, the killing of Ms. Cox might change the tone of the campaign’s final few days.
Elected to Parliament for the opposition Labour Party last year, Ms. Cox was a supporter of the European Union, had worked for the humanitarian organization Oxfam and called attention to the plight of refugees. Thomas Mair, the man charged in her killing, 
Supporters of remaining in the union were also scathing in their criticism of Mr. Farage on Sunday.
Scotland’s first minister, Nicola Sturgeon, called for the poster to be withdrawn and described it as “vile and racist.” George Osborne, the British Treasury chief, said it had “echoes of literature used in the 1930s.”
Mr. Farage rejected the criticism, telling the ITV television network that, far from stoking hatred, he had “been a victim of it.” He described the poster as a reflection of “the truth” and added that Mr. Gove’s campaign had also released “very strong posters.”
But Mr. Farage also said the death of Ms. Cox might have had a negative effect on the chances of those who support a withdrawal, or “Brexit.” “We did have momentum until this terrible tragedy,” he said.
“When you are taking on the establishment, you need to have momentum,” Mr. Farage said. “I don’t know what’s going to happen over the course of the next three or four days.”
Another leading proponent of British withdrawal, Boris Johnson, a member of Parliament and former mayor of London, sought to change the discussion of immigration. He said he supported amnesty for migrants who had entered the country illegally more than 12 years ago.
On Sunday, church services were dedicated to the memory of Ms. Cox, and on Monday Parliament will be recalled in a tribute to her.
But with the end of the campaign truce that followed her killing, both sides returned on Sunday to trying to gain an edge in what is expected to be a close vote.
Supporters of the European Union sought to stress the economic risks of Brexit, which Mr. Osborne described as a “one-way door to a much more uncertain world.”