
LONDON — Britain’s startling 
The decisive win by the “Leave” campaign exposed deep divides: young versus old, urban versus rural, Scotland versus England. The recriminations flew fast, not least at Mr. Cameron, who had made the decision to call the 
The result of the so-called Brexit vote presented another stiff challenge to the leaders of the other leading European powers as they confront spreading populist anger. It was seized on by far-right and anti-Brussels parties across Europe, with Marine Le Pen of the National Front in France calling for a “Frexit” referendum and Geert Wilders of the Party for Freedom in the Netherlands calling for a “Nexit.”
transcript
RESTRICTION SUMMARY: AP CLIENTS ONLY


UK POOL - AP CLIENTS ONLY


London - 24 June 2016


1. British Prime Minister David Cameron approaching the lectern to give a statement


2. SOUNDBITE (English) David Cameron, British Prime Minister:


“Good morning everyone. The country has just taken part in a giant democratic exercise, perhaps the biggest in our history. Over 33 million people, from England, Scotland, Wales, Northern Ireland and Gibraltar, have all had their say. We should be proud of the fact that in these islands, we trust the people with these big decisions. We not only have a parliamentary democracy, but on questions about the arrangements for how we are governed there are times when it is right to ask the people themselves and that is what we have done. The British people have voted to leave the European Union and their will must be respected. I want to thank everyone who took part in the campaign on my side of the argument, including all those who put aside party differences to speak in what they believe was the national interest and let me congratulate all those who took part in the Leave campaign for the spirited and passionate case that they made. The will of the British people is an instruction that must be delivered. It was not a decision that was taken lightly, not least because so many things were said by so many different organisations about the significance of this decision.”


++FRAMES OF BLACK++


3. SOUNDBITE (English) David Cameron, British Prime Minister:


“I fought his campaign in the only way I know how: which is to say directly and passionately what I think and feel, head, heart and soul. I held nothing back, I was absolutely clear about my belief that Britain is stronger, safer and better off inside the European Union. And I made clear the Referendum was about this and this alone - not the future of any single politician including myself. But the British people have made a very clear decision to take a different path and as such I think the country requires fresh leadership to take it in this direction. I will do everything I can as Prime Minister to steady the ship over the coming weeks and months but I do not think it would be right for me to try to be the captain that steers our country to its next destination. This is not a decision I’ve taken lightly but I do believe it’s in the national interest to have a period of stability and then the new leadership required. There is no need for a precise timetable today but in my view we should aim to have a new prime minister in place by the start of the Conservative Party conference in October. Delivering stability will be important and I will continue in post as Prime Minister with my Cabinet for the next three months. The Cabinet will meet on Monday, the Governor of the Bank of England is making a statement about the steps that the Bank and the Treasury are taking to reassure financial markets.”


4. Cameron at lectern


AND



RESTRICTION SUMMARY: AP CLIENTS ONLY


UK POOL - AP CLIENTS ONLY


London - 24 June 2016


1. SOUNDBITE (English) David Cameron, British Prime Minister:


“A negotiation with the European Union will need to begin under a new Prime Minister. And I think it’s right that this new Prime Minister takes the decision about when to trigger Article 50 and start the formal and legal process of leaving the EU. I will attend the European Council next week to explain the decision the British people have taken, and my own decision.”


++FRAMES OF BLACK++


2. SOUNDBITE (English) David Cameron, British Prime Minister:


“Although leaving Europe was not the path I recommended, I am the first to praise our incredible strengths. I said before that Britain can survive outside the European Union and indeed that we could find a way. Now the decision has been made to leave, we need to find the best way. And I will do everything I can to help. I love this country and I feel honoured to have served it. And I will do everything I can in the future to help this great country succeed. Thank you very much.”


3. Various of Cameron walking back to Number 10 with his wife Samantha
European officials met in Brussels to begin discussing a response and to emphasize their commitment to strengthening and improving the bloc, which will have 27 members after Britain’s departure.
“At stake is the breakup, pure and simple, of the union,” Prime Minister Manuel Valls of France said, adding, “Now is the time to invent another Europe.”
Germany urged calm. “Today marks a turning point for Europe,” Chancellor Angela Merkel said. “It is a turning point for the European unification process.”
With all votes counted, Leave was ahead by 52 percent to 48 percent, an enormous snub to Britain’s elite.
The process of withdrawal is likely to play out slowly, perhaps taking years. It will mean pulling out of the world’s largest trading zone, with 508 million residents, including the 65 million people of Britain, and abandoning a commitment to the free movement of labor, capital, goods and services. It has profound implications for Britain’s legal system, which incorporates a large body of regulations that cover everything from product safety to digital privacy, and for Britain’s economy.
The main ways in which the change will be felt are on trade — Britain will lose automatic access to the European single market — and on immigration, with Britain no longer bound to allow any European Union citizen to live and work in the country. Britain will have to try to negotiate new deals covering those issues.
To those in Britain who supported remaining in Europe, the result of Thursday’s in-or-out referendum was a painful rejection, leaving the country exposed to a possible economic downturn and signaling a step away from the multiculturalism that they say has made Britain among Europe’s most vibrant societies.
To backers of leaving, the outcome was vindication of their belief that Britain could pursue an independent course in the world, free of the Brussels bureaucracy and able to control the flow of immigrants into the country.
“Dare to dream that the dawn is breaking on an independent United Kingdom,” 
For Mr. Cameron, the results were a humiliating disaster, forcing him to announce his departure only 13 months after he won re-election behind a surprisingly large Conservative majority in national elections. Critics said that he had led Britain out of Europe for no good reason and that the unity of the United Kingdom itself was threatened, with Scotland now more likely to try again to bolt.
Speaking in front of 10 Downing Street early Friday, with his wife, Samantha, standing nearby, Mr. Cameron said he would resign once a new leader had been chosen by his party, a decision he expected by October. He will stay now to provide stability, but a new prime minister, he said, should formally begin Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union and negotiate the terms of that divorce.
Britons voted on Thursday to leave the European Union. The Leave side led with 17.4 million votes, or 52 percent, versus the Remain side’s 16.1 million, or 48 percent, with a turnout of around 72 percent.
“I held nothing back,” Mr. Cameron said. His voice breaking, he said, “I love this country and I feel honored to have served it.”
His statement created an immediate churn in the political waters, with speculation that the two Conservatives most likely to succeed him are Boris Johnson, the flamboyant former mayor of London who helped lead the Leave campaign, and Theresa May, the Home secretary, who supported Mr. Cameron and Remain, but concentrated on doing her job rather than campaigning.
Mr. Johnson was booed Friday morning as he left his home in London, which voted overwhelmingly for Remain. In a brief statement later, Mr. Johnson praised Mr. Cameron, an old friend and rival from school days, as “an extraordinary politician” and said he was sad to see him go.
Mr. Johnson refused to answer questions about his own future but praised the result. “We can find our voice in the world again, a voice that is commensurate with the fifth-biggest economy on earth,” he said.
But if Britain’s Treasury and Central Bank are to be believed, the economic hit the country will take from leaving the single market of the European Union will be considerable, with permanent loss of economic growth, higher unemployment and lower tax receipts.
The immediate market reaction was an effort to find a floor in the midst of so much uncertainty, said Barrington Pitt Miller, an equity research analyst at Janus Capital. But he said he expected British economic growth to be zero or negative in the short and medium term, with a secondary impact over time as London’s financial services sector, which makes up about 10 percent of the economy, begins to move staff members and headquarters to Frankfurt, Paris or Dublin.
A lot will depend on how the European Union chooses in the end to respond — whether it is “vindictive, friendly or frightened,” he said.
Mr. Johnson and some in the Leave campaign argued that the other European nations valued trade with Britain so much that they would negotiate a special deal after Britain’s withdrawal to let Britain remain in the single market without having to guarantee freedom of movement and labor. That seems highly unlikely because it would only encourage other nations to pressure Brussels. But it may be that as the dust settles, some sort of association agreement with Britain could be negotiated, as Ms. Merkel suggested on Friday, though the price could be high.
Investors, policy makers and countries face a messy breakup with vast financial, economic and political implications.
The economy aside, the United Kingdom itself now faces a threat to its survival. Scotland voted by 62 percent to 38 percent to remain in the European Union, and the Scottish first minister, Nicola Sturgeon, said Friday that it was “democratically unacceptable” for Scotland to be dragged out of it against its will. Another independence referendum, she said, “is now highly likely.”
Appearing before reporters in front of the flags of Scotland and the European Union, Ms. Sturgeon, who leads the dominant Scottish National Party, said, “It is a statement of the obvious that the option of a second referendum must be on the table, and it is on the table.”
The threat is real, but any new vote will not come soon, because it is only two years since the last one, which the Scottish nationalists lost, and the price of oil, on which the Scottish economy largely depends, has dropped.
Northern Ireland, too, voted for Remain, although Protestants and Roman Catholics, as usual, were split. But the prospect of an open border with Ireland now becoming a hard border between the European Union and the United Kingdom will change matters and require checks of passports and goods, putting strain on the Good Friday peace agreement.
Britain’s financial and military connections to the rest of Europe.
In England, which voted for Leave, there are obvious strains, too.
They can be found between the young who voted in large numbers for Remain and those over 45, who voted for Leave; between the cities and the countryside; between richer and poorer; and between better educated and less educated.
London itself, the glittering, expensive, multicultural and multinational global capital, with its many immigrants and liberal values, was isolated in a sea of those favoring Leave; in some sense, the vote was against the wealthy elites who live in London and rule everyone else from there.
Last, there is the chasm between political leaders, nearly all of whom backed Remain, and many of their voters, who rebuffed them.
Bronwen Maddox, former editor of Prospect Magazine and the new director of the Institute for Government, a research institution, said in an email that “there is a growing intolerance for representative government, which is likely to have consequences for the ability of any government to run the country.”
The referendum, she suggested, might have been about Brussels, but it revealed and unleashed many other forces. Those forces, she said, “have ejected the U.K. from the European Union; they may now wreak similar turmoil on the old political parties themselves.”