
LONDON — Months after Britain voted to leave the European Union, the first tangible victim of that decision has emerged and, like the 28-nation bloc itself, it is something that has divided the country for years: Marmite, a sludgy and odd-tasting breakfast spread.
Since 
But they probably never thought it would come to this.
Fears that Marmite and other British classics, like the PG Tips brand of tea, might disappear from store shelves had gripped Britons after reports that the supermarket chain Tesco and the owner of those brands, the British-Dutch consumer goods company Unilever, were locked in a price dispute over who should bear the cost of the weakening pound. Marmite was briefly unavailable in Tesco’s online market, and store supplies dwindled.
The pound has fallen drastically against other major currencies since the vote to leave the bloc, and as worries have increased that Britain would opt for a “hard Brexit” — shorthand for a strict break with the European Union — which could limit its tariff-free access to the region’s single market for goods and services.
But after the markets closed on Thursday, Tesco reassured the public that the crisis had been averted. In a statement, Tesco said, “We’re pleased this situation has been resolved to our satisfaction.”
In reality, consumers will most likely have to dig deeper into their pocketbooks. Graeme Pitkethly, Unilever’s chief financial officer, said during an earnings call on Thursday that “prices should start to increase to cover the cost of imported goods due to weaker sterling.”
Still, the concerns over the beloved consumer goods led to a political uproar.
“Who would have thought that the first casualty of a hard Brexit would be the nation’s supplies of Marmite?” asked Pete Wishart, a member of Parliament for the Scottish National Party, which campaigned to remain in the European Union.
On Twitter, Britons wryly noted that store shelves were emptied of Marmite jars, and one used jar was put up for sale on eBay for 100,000 pounds, or about $122,000. News bulletins on the BBC led with the possible Marmite shortage.
“This is a concrete case of Brexit affecting people’s lives,” said Pinar Hosafci, a senior food analyst at Euromonitor International. “Talk of Brexit had been more political, financial and a bit abstract” before, she added. “This touches their lives.”
Among the affected brands is Colman’s Mustard, which, like Marmite, is produced in Britain.
Analysts noted that although Marmite and some of the other affected brands were made in Britain, Unilever published its company results in euros, meaning that those products were still affected by a weaker pound. Imported household goods like Dove soap and Ben & Jerry’s ice cream are also under the Unilever umbrella.
In 2011, Tesco refused to stock Branston Pickle after another supplier, Premier Foods, tried to pass on cost increases.
Analysts have predicted that food prices will start to rise across the board in the coming months as supermarkets struggle to absorb the extra cost of imported goods, which are more expensive when a currency weakens.
Stores have already stopped promotions and discounts on their products, Ms. Hosafci said. But “price increases will start happening in the next four to five months, when they will need to renew their stocks.”
“Eventually, they’ll need to increase prices,” she added. “Otherwise, their businesses will no longer be profitable.”