
This article must begin with a mea culpa. When British voters decided in June that they wanted to depart the European Union, 
Advocates of “Brexit” argued that was hogwash, and the early evidence suggests they were right. For example, surveys of purchasing managers showed that both the British 
But the events of the last couple of weeks suggest that British leaders are drawing the wrong conclusions from the fact that their predictions proved right. The British currency 
The British pound fell to about $1.24 on Friday from $1.30 a week earlier and continued edging down Monday. Even if you treat a “flash crash” in the pound on Asian markets Thursday night as an aberration — it fell 6 percent, then recovered in a short span — these types of aberrations seem to happen only when a market is already under severe stress. (See, for example, the May 2010 flash crash of American stocks, during a flare-up of the eurozone crisis).
Sterling, as traders refer to the currency, is acting as the global market’s minute-to-minute referendum on how significant the economic disruption from Brexit will end up being. So what does the latest downswing represent? It’s worth understanding why British financial markets and the country’s economy stabilized quickly after the Brexit vote to begin with.
The vote set off a chaotic time of political disruption, especially the resignation of the prime minister, David Cameron, who had advocated for the country’s remaining part of the E.U. Theresa May won the internal battle to become the next prime minister, which was to markets and business decision makers a relatively benign result.
Ms. May, the former home secretary, is temperamentally pragmatic. She reluctantly supported remaining in the union. And while she pledged to follow through on leaving it (“Brexit means Brexit,” she said), she seemed like the kind of leader who would ensure that some of the worst-case possibilities of how Brexit might go wouldn’t materialize. Exporters would retain access to European markets. London could remain the de facto banking capital of Europe. All would be well.
Meanwhile, the Bank of England sprang into action to cushion the economic blow of Brexit-related uncertainty. Despite the inflationary pressures created by a falling pound, the bank, projecting loss of jobs and economic output, cut interest rates and started a new program of quantitative easing to try to soften the blow.
All of that — the prospect of “soft Brexit” and easier monetary policy — helped financial markets stabilize and then rally, and kept the economic damage mild, as the purchasing managers’ surveys show.
But in the last couple of weeks, the tenor has shifted.
The May government has sent a range of signals indicating it will take a hard line in negotiations with European governments over the terms of Brexit. At a conservative party conference, 
That sets up confrontational negotiations between the British government and its E.U. counterparts. European leaders will be reluctant to allow Britain continued free access to its markets, which the May government wants, without similarly free movement of people across borders.
And beyond the substance of the negotiations, the British government has signaled in recent days that it is looking inward, and will be hostile to those who are not British citizens.
Britain has started the clock on leaving the European Union, and will be out of the bloc by March 2019. Here is how “Brexit” has affected business so far.
The home secretary, Amber Rudd, 
In essence, the confidence that Brexit will not mean Britain is shutting itself off from Europe and the world is starting to dissipate.
Then there’s monetary policy. At the same party conference, Ms. May indicated skepticism of the role the Bank of England and other central banks have played in the economy in recent years, saying that while low interest rates and quantitative easing provided necessary help after the financial crisis, “we have to acknowledge there have been some bad side effects.”
There’s plenty of truth to that, and Mark Carney, the Bank of England’s governor, 
In short, after Mr. Carney helped foam the economic runway after the Brexit vote, Ms. May’s comments were the equivalent of complaining about the mess created by all that foam.
There’s always going to be some jockeying on both sides in advance of a difficult negotiation, and the sympathetic view to the British government is that it is merely trying to maximize its advantage in hammering out a deal to execute its Brexit.
The problem is that staking out that ground means risking the very economic damage that a conciliatory tone and easy money helped avoid over the summer.