
LONDON — Boris Johnson, Britain’s 
In an unusual upbraiding of a foreign secretary by a sitting prime minister, Downing Street on Thursday was forced to issue a statement that Mr. Johnson was not representing the “government’s position” on Saudi Arabia. Mr. Johnson had accused the country, a British ally, of “puppeteering” in “proxy wars” across the Middle East and of “abusing Islam.”
The comments by Mr. Johnson came to light on Thursday after 
“There are politicians who are twisting and abusing religion and different strains of the same religion in order to further their own political objectives,” he said, adding, “That’s why you’ve got the Saudis, Iran, everybody, moving in and puppeteering and playing proxy wars.”
Mr. Johnson’s comments are hardly shocking, perhaps, considering that before his appointment as foreign secretary, he 
But by criticizing an ally publicly, Mr. Johnson not only breached diplomatic protocol but embarrassed Prime Minister Theresa May, who had recently returned from a two-day trip to the Persian Gulf. While there, she extolled the Saudi royal family’s leadership, as part of a diplomatic drive to cement close relations between the two countries.
The timing also could not be worse because Mr. Johnson is scheduled to travel to Saudi Arabia to meet with government ministers there on Sunday. Britain, which is on the verge of starting difficult negotiations to leave the European Union, is eager to offset its dependence on the enormous European market. Saudi Arabia has been a lucrative market for British arms exports.
“The foreign secretary’s views are not the government’s position on, for example, Saudi Arabia and its role in the region,” the prime minister’s spokeswoman told the BBC. She also said that Downing Street had “full confidence in the foreign secretary.”
The public distancing from Mr. Johnson underscored Downing Street’s simmering frustration with the foreign secretary, an ebullient former mayor of London whose self-deprecating wit, affability and evident passion for the city won him many fans — some who regarded him as an amusing jester. But he has struggled to adopt the thick skin and stiff upper lip befitting a British foreign secretary.
On Sunday, Mr. Johnson walked away from a television interview on 
“We are not getting into a pub quiz about the leaders around the world, and I am going to, with great respect, invite you out to the pub,” he told the show’s host, Dermot Murnaghan.
In November, Mr. Johnson was forced into an 
Nor were supporters of leaving amused when he said at an awards event last month that leaving the European Union would be a “
Lately, even his political allies have worried that his being mocked at home is making it harder for him to be taken seriously on the global stage.
Last month, Philip Hammond, the chancellor of the Exchequer, used 
Whatever his challenges at home, Mr. Johnson could struggle as he seeks to build close ties with allies abroad, including the United States. As mayor of London, he once said President-elect Donald J. Trump was “clearly out of his mind” for planning to stop Muslims from immigrating to the United States.
He has since said he was “looking forward” to working with the Mr. Trump.