
LONDON — With British politics in turmoil, there were already clear indications on Saturday of a tense and bickering divorce from the 
Britons woke up to a diminished currency and much confusion about the consequences of their 
Meeting in Berlin, European leaders told Britain to hurry up and begin the formal process of exiting the union, while Prime Minister 
“I do not understand why the British government needs until October to decide whether to send the divorce letter to Brussels,” Jean-Claude Juncker, the president of the European Commission, told German television.
“I would like it immediately,” he said. “It is not an amicable divorce, but it was also not an intimate love affair.”
The emergency meeting of foreign ministers from the European Union’s six founding states — Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg and the Netherlands — revealed impatience and exasperation with Britain.
The Europeans want Mr. Cameron to start the legal process of quitting by immediately invoking 
The European Union has other considerable challenges, including the migrant crisis, Greece’s turbulent economy and sanctions on Russia over Ukraine. European leaders, looking at Spanish elections on Sunday and German and French elections next year, want the uncertainty around the British question resolved as soon as possible so they can try to show their own voters that Brussels is capable and on track.
But the British have to decide what they want in a future relationship with the European Union, given the disagreement among the Brexit leaders, who are not a government. Mr. Cameron, humiliated and an opponent of leaving, clearly has no desire to bear the burden of those negotiations — both internally, within the divided Conservative Party, and externally, with other European leaders. His counterparts in Europe think he has damaged not only himself and his country, but also them, by energizing European populism and diminishing the bloc.
The French are particularly impatient, with Foreign Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault saying on Saturday that negotiations on Britain’s departure from the bloc should begin soon. He warned that Mr. Cameron will face “very strong” pressure to accelerate the process when European leaders meet on Tuesday in Brussels, where Mr. Cameron is expected to be asked to leave the room when the others discuss their plans. The Europeans are also expected to cancel Britain’s six-month presidency of the council, which was to begin in July 2017.
There is confusion about Britain, too. Mr. Ayrault said Saturday that “they must designate a new prime minister, which would certainly require several days.” In fact, the process will be considerably longer, because Conservative lawmakers must first agree on a leadership contest and decide when it will be. That contest will involve numerous ballots of Conservative legislators to winnow down candidates to two, and then the 150,000 or so registered members of the party (who had joined at least three months ago, to prevent infiltration) will vote by mail.
Even so, Chancellor 
Ms. Merkel, trying to be conciliatory in the face of facts, said that she was seeking an “objective, good” climate in talks on Britain’s exit, and that there was “no need to be particularly nasty in any way in the negotiations; they must be conducted properly.”
Already weakened politically by the 
The Scottish cabinet held an emergency meeting in Edinburgh on Saturday after the first minister, 
Scotland voted overwhelmingly in favor of remaining in the bloc, and Ms. Sturgeon, who leads the Scottish National Party that favors independence from Britain, reiterated after the meeting on Saturday that a 
She said Scotland planned to enter discussions with European Union institutions and European governments to protect its place in the bloc. Ms. Sturgeon said she would establish an advisory panel on the legal, financial and diplomatic implications of the vote.
As Mr. Cameron’s announced resignation sank in, speculation abounded that Boris Johnson, the former mayor of London and the most visible leader of the “Leave” campaign, was the favorite to replace him. But there were reports in British newspapers that Mr. Cameron and his deputy, George Osborne, the chancellor of the Exchequer, were eager to keep Mr. Johnson from profiting from what they considered to be his betrayal and that they were organizing support for Theresa May, the home secretary.
The Labour Party was also in turmoil, with a 
In a speech in London on Saturday, Mr. Corbyn largely ignored the no-confidence effort. Instead, he told supporters that Labour would fight to ensure that its agenda was at the heart of discussions as Britain negotiated its exit from the bloc.
He mentioned the importance of employment protections and human rights, said the referendum had laid bare divisions in the country over immigration and underlined the despair of those hit by austerity measures.
“Today it’s important we learn from what has taken place,” he said. Asked if he would run again if his leadership was challenged, he replied, “Yes, I am here.”
As 
The sense of shock was particularly acute in London, a cosmopolitan city and an important financial center, which reacted to the vote with anger, disappointment and even tears.
“I was crying yesterday,” Camila Diehl, 26, who works for a cancer charity in London, said Saturday. “I just can’t believe this is happening. This is not the country I know.”
Ms. Diehl, who has a Colombian mother and a British father, said she was worried about what the vote would mean for funding for scientific research. She is now questioning her future in Britain, she said.
Mayor Sadiq Kahn, who supported “Remain,” took to Facebook on Friday, saying he wanted to “send a clear message to every European resident living in London — you are very welcome here.”
“There are nearly one million European citizens living in London today, and they bring huge benefits to our city — working hard, paying taxes, working in our public services and contributing to our civic and cultural life,” he wrote.
And in the latest consequence of Britain’s vote to withdraw from Brussels, Britain’s highest-ranking European Union official — Jonathan Hill, the commissioner for financial services — resigned on Saturday.