
The British have been warned many times over.
The International Monetary Fund; the Bank of England; Britain’s Treasury; David Cameron, the country’s prime minister; top bankers like Jamie Dimon; scores of economists; and even 
Yet the warnings so far have not worked. A stream of recent opinion polls suggests that Britons will vote Thursday to leave the European Union. But the polls were wrong in Britain’s general election last year, and 
What is clear is that the gloomy forecasts of economic pain have not resonated with voters. That’s partly because the referendum has mostly become about national sovereignty and curbing immigration. A country in the European Union has little control over the movement of people between other countries in the union. The British have long been concerned about this freedom, and the “leave” campaign has focused on those worries.
Still, the extent to which the economic question has taken a back seat is surprising.
True, voters are sometimes willing to accept some economic pain to achieve other goals they consider important. A stark example: In the lead-up to the Iraq war that began in 2003, most people said they expected the economy to suffer even as they strongly supported going to war.
A not-insignificant proportion of the British voters who support leaving the European Union expect significant economic pain if it were to occur. A recent 
Over all, 49 percent of respondents said a recession was likely, and 48 percent said unlikely. That suggests there was enough economic fear circulating to benefit the “remain” camp.
Still, other polls suggest the British people are not particularly nervous about the economic impact. In a recent YouGov poll, 37 percent of people said Britain would be worse off if it left the E.U., while 22 percent said the country would be better off. But 26 percent said it would make no difference to the economy. In other words, almost half the respondents thought the economy would be better or no different. (In this poll, 15 percent were “don’t knows.”)
If British voters do feel unfazed, it’s understandable. The country’s economy has done relatively well in recent years. Unemployment is low, and the share of the working-age population with jobs is at 
Also, British business owners and executives, especially those at smaller companies, are mostly unworried by the prospect of leaving the European Union, according to a 
Britain will hold a referendum on Thursday on whether to leave the European Union, a decision nicknamed “Brexit.”
Certainly, there appear to be big contradictions in the minds of the “leave” camp when it comes to economic questions. Britain relies heavily on immigrants, so restricting immigration could hurt the economy. And leaving the European Union might also reduce British companies’ access to an enormous trade area.
But maybe voters do not expect strict curbs on immigration if Britain leaves the E.U. A 
But what about Brexit’s threat to trade? Voters may simply find it hard to gauge the importance of trade agreements. Or they may believe that the European Union would seek to maintain most of the current trade arrangements, rather than taking a sharply retaliatory line. That’s not a crazy expectation.
A lot is still in flux, especially because of the 