
LONDON — With nine days left before Britain votes on whether to remain in the European Union, the possibility of Turkey’s becoming a member of the bloc has inflamed the debate, injecting divisive issues of race, religion and tolerance openly into the campaign.
Supporters of a 
Those in favor of leaving, including other leading Conservatives, have stressed the social, cultural and economic risks of continued immigration from other European Union countries, whose citizens are entitled to live and work in Britain. Most of the recent European immigrants to Britain have come from Poland, the Baltics, Spain and Greece.
The emphasis on the supposedly imminent membership of Turkey, however, adds a new and darker aspect to the arguments for Britain’s leaving: Turkey would be the bloc’s second-largest country after Germany, and it is poor, is Muslim and borders Syria, where 
The debate is happening when attacks like the one in Orlando, Fla., have raised concerns about both Islamic radicalism and Islamophobia. An unofficial group advocating Britain’s departure from the European Union posted
In the Vote Leave campaign’s official leaflet, which will go to some 40 million Britons, Turkish accession is a prominent theme, and a 
“Since the birthrate in Turkey is so high, we can expect to see an additional million people added to the U.K. population from Turkey alone within eight years,” Vote Leave said.
Trevor Phillips, a former chairman of the Equality and Human Rights Commission in Britain, said that “there really isn’t any doubt that what they are appealing to here is straightforward prejudice.”
The opposition Labour Party’s shadow justice secretary, Charles Falconer, said the claims are “dangerous and inflame racism.”
“None of this needs decoding,” Philip Stephens, a columnist for The Financial Times, 
Tim Farron, the leader of the opposition Liberal Democrats, said that “coded nudges and winks like this are utterly horrific.” He added, “Vote Leave is just playing the politics of division, and it has no place in British society.”
Yvette Cooper, a Labour member of Parliament and former shadow foreign secretary, accused the leaders of the Vote Leave camp, Justice Secretary Michael Gove and the Conservative former mayor of London, 
Ms. Cooper said the discussion was “utterly shameful,” since both men know that Turkey is many years away from joining the European Union. Any member nation also could veto the country’s entry, including historical enemies like Cyprus and Greece.
“They are deliberately manipulating the facts; they are deliberately telling lies,” she said. “It is shameful, utterly shameful.”
In the past, Mr. Cameron, who is the leader of the Remain campaign, has said it is government policy to support Turkish membership in the bloc when the country qualifies, a position that Mr. Johnson himself, whose great-grandfather was Turkish, also embraced enthusiastically at one point.
“Now,” Mr. Stephens wrote, “Mr. Johnson lets the Islamophobia hang in the air.”
Mr. Cameron and his deputy, George Osborne, the chancellor of the Exchequer, have pointed out that Turkey’s membership is unlikely to happen and would be decades away even if Cyprus and Greece went along. The authoritarian shift of President Recep Tayyip Erdogan is driving away even Turkey’s previous allies in Europe.
“I don’t think it’s going to happen in my lifetime,” said Mr. Osborne, who has just turned 45. “Is it going to be a member of the European Union? No, it’s not.”
Asked about Mr. Cameron’s past support for Turkish membership, Mr. Osborne said: “Turkey has gone backwards. There are concerns about democracy and human rights there. British government policy is that it should not join the European Union today.”
Further, the government points out, Britain is not part of the Schengen area of visa-free travel. So even if the Turks won some form of visa-free travel for Schengen countries, which Mr. Erdogan is seeking in return for helping Europe control the flow of Syrian refugees, such a deal would not affect Britain.
In response, the Leave campaign denied charges of racism and said: “The government must now urgently clarify whether its policy on Turkey has changed. Is it now promising to veto Turkish membership?”
On Sunday, the visa issue surfaced again with some leaked British diplomatic cables in 
One cable from a British diplomat in Ankara, Turkey’s capital, discussed whether Britain might itself grant visa-free status to 1.5 million “Turkish special passport holders,” who are mostly civil servants, as a “significant and symbolic gesture to Turkey,” in part to keep Mr. Erdogan from carrying out “his threat to ‘open the floodgates’ to Europe for migrants.”
The government responded by calling the article “selectively leaked quotes” that are “designed to give a completely false impression that the U.K. is considering granting visa liberalization to some Turkish citizens.”
Both Mr. Cameron and Mr. Osborne have suggested that the Leave campaign has devolved from a more high-minded discussion of Britain’s role in the world and its sovereignty to the anti-immigration theme that has been the calling card of the U.K. Independence Party and its leader, Nigel Farage.
Mr. Osborne called Mr. Farage’s vision of Britain “mean” and “divisive.”
Mr. Farage, in a television debate last week, said British women could be at risk of sexual assaults from immigrants if Britain voted to remain in the European Union. Referring to reports of sexual assaults by migrants on German women in Cologne on New Year’s Eve in 2015, Mr. Farage called this “the nuclear bomb” of the referendum campaign.
Mr. Gove said the European Union should be protesting Turkey’s “erosion of democratic freedoms” instead of granting it concessions.
The referendum on June 23, Mr. Gove said, is “the only chance” for Britons to have their say on the free movement of Turks.
“With the terrorism threat we face only growing, it is hard to see how it could possibly be in our security interests to open visa-free travel to 77 million Turkish citizens and to create a border-free zone from Iraq, Iran and Syria to the English Channel,” he said.
Mr. Johnson, who was attacked by the former Conservative prime minister John Major for a “squalid” and “deceitful” campaign, including “depressing and awful” arguments on immigration and Turkey, responded, “Frankly, I don’t mind whether Turkey joins the E.U., provided that the U.K. leaves the E.U.”
Asked about his previous support for Turkish membership, Mr. Johnson said both Turkey and the European Union had changed. “That was back in the days when some of us thought that widening the E.U. would not mean this federalizing, centralizing, deepening process that we have seen,” he said.