
LONDON — It is hard, if not impossible, to recall a time when Europe’s view across the Mediterranean has been so clouded by conflagration in what seems a redrawn crescent of crisis from North Africa to Turkey.
And, some analysts have come to conclude, it is equally difficult to remember a moment when European leaders have seemed more distracted in rising to the challenge beyond their own frontiers.
The powerful seem hamstrung by the ascendancy at home of rightist insurgents whose appeal to disaffected citizens feeds on opposition to migrants in their midst. 
The term “
These days, with the Cold War’s harvest supplanted by the sour fruits of the Arab Spring, a comparable fragmentation threatens equally fragile polities along the Mediterranean littoral, consumed by the battle with 
At the center of the arc is the Syrian civil war, but, said Julien Barnes-Dacey, a policy specialist with the European Council on Foreign Relations, the spillover has left neighboring states — 
“They all face the challenge posed by the Islamic State, and, perhaps more importantly, the challenge of maintaining the fragile political balance that maintains the status quo,” 
“While Jordan and Lebanon have managed the situation far better than expected, the regional trend is not in their favor,” the report said. “In Turkey the challenges are growing more acute with the Syria war also reigniting its conflict with the Kurds.”
Turkey’s president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, is seeking to negotiate 
“European states also need to stay focused on strengthening regional resilience mechanisms, and stepping up support to the inclusive political consensus that is essential for holding these states together,” the report said.
That is precisely where the geopolitical considerations collide with a narrower self-interest.
European countries must show a willingness to “take in larger numbers of Syrian refugees,” the report said. Yet, for many European governments troubled by the rise of xenophobic challengers at home, the migrant influx has become a political minefield.
Now, if Middle Eastern countries fear contagion from Syria’s civil war, so, too, do many European countries fear infection by the British referendum to withdraw from the European Union.
The vote on June 23 that produced a majority in favor of what is commonly referred to as Brexit has left Britain rudderless.
After its most momentous and divisive decision since World War II, Britain’s spasm of internecine political warfare has left other European leaders desperate to forestall similar turmoil in their own countries.
From a small seed sown decades ago by a few conservative Britons, repercussions of the referendum have built their own arc of crisis.
“For the time being,” 
“This,” he said, “is obviously no time for grand strategies.”