
LONDON — One way or another, Britain will have its second female prime minister.
The governing Conservative Party took another step on Thursday in its process to replace Prime Minister David Cameron, winnowing the contest to two candidates: 
When the contest is concluded in September, one of them will become the first woman to lead Britain since 
Ms. May quietly supported remaining in the European Union but has since said that she respects the outcome of the June 23 referendum and that she will seek the best possible deal for Britain as it negotiates its withdrawal from the bloc. She dominated the first stage of the selection process, in which the field is narrowed to two candidates through voting by the 330 Conservative members of the House of Commons.
Ms. May, 59, remains the favorite, but in the next round will be judged by a different constituency: registered party members, many of whom were vociferous supporters of leaving the European Union. Conservative Party headquarters has for days been unable or unwilling to disclose how many registered voters there are, but the House of Commons Library said that the latest published figure of 149,800 stems from December 2013. Voters will mail in their ballots, with the winner, to be announced on Sept. 9, becoming party leader and prime minister without having to call a general election.
Ms. Leadsom, 53, the runner-up in Thursday’s round of voting by members of Parliament, was a vocal advocate of leaving the European Union. In finishing second and qualifying for the final round, she eliminated 
Ms. May holds one of the highest-profile posts in the British government and is considered the more experienced candidate — serious and competent but lacking charisma. Ms. Leadsom, who had a low profile and entered government as a junior minister only in 2014, has been accused of inflating her résumé. As recently as three years ago, she supported continued British membership in the European Union.
Ms. Leadsom put her 25 years of working in financial services before becoming a legislator in 2010 at the center of her leadership campaign, but those who worked with her have told reporters that she exaggerated her role at Barclays Bank and Invesco Perpetual, a fund manager. She told Sky News, “My CV is correct.”
In Thursday’s voting, Ms. May received 199 votes, Ms. Leadsom 84 and Mr. Gove 46.
Ms. May and Ms. Leadsom are both ideological conservatives whose backgrounds are far different from those of the Eton-Oxford male circle that has dominated Conservative politics since Mr. Cameron became party leader in 2005. Both women went to state schools, where Ms. May won a place at Oxford. Ms. Leadsom went to the University of Warwick.
Ms. May said on Twitter that she was gratified by support from across the Conservative Party, including both people who favored membership in the European Union and those against it. “I’ve always said there should be a proper contest. Now is the time for me and my team to take our case out to members in the country,” she 
In a speech on Thursday, Ms. Leadsom said she would focus on “the continued success of the U.K. economy,” which has been hit hard by Brexit, raising fears of an increased budget deficit from lower growth and lower tax receipts. “Prosperity should be our goal, not austerity,” she said.
She also said that “trade must be our top priority: continued free trade with the E.U.” She added that she favored “fair but controlled immigration,” without explaining how duty-free trade with the European Union could be maintained while scrapping European rules on freedom of movement and labor, which she also has said she intends to do.
European Union leaders have repeatedly said that access to the single market of the European Union is not possible without accepting freedom of movement and labor.
Ms. Leadsom had initially agreed to back Mr. Johnson in return for the promise of a high government post. He was supposed to call or text her confirming their arrangement by a certain time, but failed to do so, prompting Ms. Leadsom to announce her own surprise candidacy.
Simon Jenkins, 
Even more, Mr. Jenkins said, the Labour Party is in chaos and the Greens and the U.K. Independence Party have both lost their leaders. “An entire political class is on the way out. As Oscar Wilde said of the death of Little Nell, it would take a heart of stone not to laugh.”