
AYRSHIRE, Scotland — Donald J. Trump arrived in Scotland just as Britain was deciding 
Touching down in Scotland on Friday morning to visit his luxury resort and golf course, Mr. Trump, who before the vote had suggested that Britain leave the European Union, took a victory lap of sorts, landing in his “G-TRMP” helicopter and proclaiming, “I said this was going to happen, and I think that it’s a great thing.”
“Basically they took back their country,” Mr. Trump said.
And amid global jitters over Britain’s divorce from the European Union, Mr. Trump reacted with celebration and self-interest, predicting that it would benefit his business and declaring that President Obama contributed to the outcome.
“Look, if the pound goes down, they’re going to do more business,” Mr. Trump said, when asked during a news conference about the referendum’s market ramifications. “When the pound goes down, more people are coming to Turnberry, frankly.”
Mr. Trump also said he saw “a big parallel” between the vote in Britain and the broader populist, anti-establishment sentiment that helped fuel his rise to the status of presumptive Republican presidential nominee.
“People want to take their country back, they want to have independence in a sense, and you see it with Europe, all over Europe, and you’re going to have more than just, in my opinion, more than just what happened last night,” Mr. Trump said. “You’re going to have many other cases where people want to take their borders back, they want to take their monetary back, they want to take a lot of things back, they want to be able to have a country again.”
His message in favor of “Brexit” was not necessarily welcome here in Scotland, whose citizens had overwhelmingly voted to remain part of Europe and were already discussing the possibility of breaking from England as a result of Thursday’s vote.
Early in June, Mr. Trump did not even know what Brexit referred to, and as recently as Wednesday, he said that his opinion on the referendum was insignificant because he had not been following the issue closely.
But hours after Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain announced that he was going to resign as a result of the vote, Mr. Trump offered his own political analysis, saying frustration with the status quo had helped influence the result.
“People are angry, all over the world people, they’re angry,” he said. “They’re angry over borders, they’re angry over people coming into the country and taking over, nobody even knows who they are. They’re angry about many, many things.”
Mr. Trump’s trip came at an unusual moment — just a month before the Republican National Convention, and as many of his aides privately fretted about the timing of the visit as he seeks to unite the party behind him. He arrived after a tough week in the United States — the firing of his campaign manager and the revelation that 
Get the latest national and state polls on the presidential election between Hillary Clinton and Donald J. Trump.
At the news conference, he was pressed repeatedly on the British referendum, and at several points he blamed Mr. Obama, who had urged Britain not to split from the European Union. “It’s not his country, it’s not his part of the world, he shouldn’t have done it, and I actually think that his recommendation perhaps caused it to fail,” Mr. Trump said.
He also attacked Hillary Clinton, saying she had “misread” the mood of the country — violating a tacit rule of decorum that politics stop at the water’s edge.
Still, Mr. Trump’s visit at times had the feel of an American abroad promoting his moneyed golf links, rather than his own candidacy for president. He was greeted, much like the queen of England would be met, by staff members of Trump Turnberry — all clad in red “Make Turnberry Great Again” hats — as well as bagpipers who, along with Secret Service agents, preceded him up the sloping steps to his property. And he waxed proud about his golf resort for more than 15 minutes, before finally taking questions on the seismic news of the day.
At one point, Mr. Trump even compared his renovation of Trump Turnberry to how he is hoping to overhaul the United States. When a reporter pointed out — correctly — that a country is hardly a golf course, Mr. Trump replied: “No it’s not, but you’ll be amazed how similar it is. It’s a place that has to be fixed.”
Other candidates have made such trips abroad to burnish their foreign policy credentials and elevate themselves as a statesman in the eyes of voters back home, jamming their days with high-level meetings with dignitaries.
But not Mr. Trump, whose 
Yet even across the ocean, Mr. Trump was unable to escape the news of the campaign trail. A group of Scottish communities and leaders organized a phone call Friday to discuss their opposition to Mr. Trump’s candidacy.
Mr. Trump, who nonetheless received a fairly warm welcome in Scotland, where locals say they appreciate the money he has poured into the village economy since buying the golf course in 2014, is unlikely to be greeted as cheerfully when he visits Balmedie, north of Aberdeen.
There, his course, Trump International Golf Links, has been 
Frank Cruickshanks, 52, who is a caddy at Mr. Trump’s property, including for Mr. Trump’s son Eric, said he appreciated the work Mr. Trump had put into overhauling the golf course.
“Having caddied for the last three weeks, mostly for Americans, I have yet to meet one who’s voting for Hillary Clinton,” Mr. Cruickshanks said.
Asked if those American tourists were voting, then, for Mr. Trump, Mr. Cruickshanks paused. “No, I didn’t say that,” he said, with a mischievous grin.