
Here’s a look at what’s coming this week.
TECHNOLOGY
This is a big week for tech company earnings, as Twitter, Facebook, Apple and Alphabet — Google’s parent company — are expected to report their quarterly financials. The theme remains the same for all four companies: to describe how well they are monetizing their mobile customers, whether it is iPhone sales for Apple or the performance of mobile advertising for Facebook, Twitter and Google.
BANKING
Shareholders of the German exchange operator Deutsche Börse have until Tuesday to approve 
OIL INDUSTRY
Major oil companies are planning to report their second-quarter earnings this week. BP will lead off on Tuesday, and Royal Dutch Shell and Total, of France, will report on Thursday. Exxon, Chevron and Eni, of Italy, will follow on Friday. Shares of most of these companies have performed well this year as investors bet that the industry’s heavy cost-cutting combined with stabilizing oil prices would improve results. In a sign of the pressures on the industry’s work force, maintenance crews on seven Shell platforms in the British North Sea plan to strike for 24 hours on Tuesday to protest reduced pay. 
ECONOMY
The Federal Reserve is unlikely to raise its benchmark interest rate when its policy-making committee meets on Tuesday and Wednesday. The domestic economy continues to expand, and 
On Wednesday, at 8:30 a.m., the Commerce Department will release its estimate of the change in durable goods orders in June. Economists expect to see an overall drop of 1.1 percent, because of a fall in demand for aircraft. Core activity, which does not include the volatile aviation category, probably rebounded slightly after weakness in the spring.
BANKING
Several of Europe’s biggest banks are reporting their second-quarter results this week, among them Deutsche Bank; the British lenders Barclays and Lloyds Banking Group; Santander, of Spain; and the Swiss banks Credit Suisse and UBS. It will be the first time the region’s largest lenders will update the investing public on their financial outlooks since Britain voted to leave the European Union last month. European bank stocks have been hit hard since the June 23 referendum because of uncertainty about the economic impact of the vote.
At the same time, the European Banking Authority is expected on Friday to announce the results of its latest 
AUTOMOBILES
Volkswagen will on Thursday report its second-quarter earnings, which will be weighed down by the cost of the company’s emissions scandal. The company said in a 
UTILITIES
After years of preparatory work, the French utility Électricité de France — better known as EDF — says it will make a decision on Thursday on whether to go ahead with the first nuclear power station to be built in Britain since the 1990s. The plant, at Hinkley Point in southwest England, has become 
ECONOMY
On Friday, at 8:30 a.m., the Commerce Department will offer its initial estimate of economic growth in the United States in the second quarter. Wall Street economists think growth picked up during April, May and June, and the consensus is predicting an annualized growth rate of 2.6 percent for the period. That represents a considerable increase from the anemic 1.1 percent annual growth rate recorded in the first quarter. Consumer spending provided much of the tailwind, even as businesses remain cautious about new investments. 
The European Union statistics agency will issue a preliminary estimate on Friday for second-quarter growth in the eurozone as well as the latest inflation and unemployment figures. The data will provide only a hint of the economic impact of Britain’s vote to leave the European Union, which took place near the end of the quarter. Still, growth is expected to slow, from an 
The Bank of Japan is widely expected on Friday to take new measures in its fight against deflation. The Japanese central bank pushed its benchmark interest rate 