
It may now be time to seriously consider what would happen if Britain left the European Union.
For months, opinion polls indicated that Britons would vote on June 23 to remain within the 28-nation union. But recent polls have shown 
“Brexit,” as Britain’s potential exit from the European Union is known, would be a big deal. It could batter global markets, 
Just as it would be a mistake to read much into a few polls, the recent move toward Brexit should not be dismissed out of hand.
First off, the polls may be more accurate than their critics give them credit for.
Britain’s pollsters came in for derision after the country’s general election just over a year ago. Polls before that vote overwhelmingly forecast a too-close-to-call race between the Conservative Party and the Labour Party. After a solid Conservative victory, an independent commission found that the 2015 polls were probably the most inaccurate since polling began in 1945. The main cause, 
True, the betting markets are predicting that there is a 72 percent chance that Britain will vote to stay in. But bettors seem 
Sometimes, just one issue can have a big influence on an election. Immigration may turn out to be that issue for the Brexit vote.
The “leave” campaign’s recent surge in the polls appears to have been prompted by the release of new numbers on net migration into Britain. The latest figures showed a 
Britain will hold a referendum on Thursday on whether to leave the European Union, a decision nicknamed “Brexit.”
The big question now is whether concerns about immigration will be strong enough for the “out” camp to win.
From an economic perspective, Britain appears to benefit from immigration. Immigrants from Europe pay 
But the “leave” campaign can exploit economic insecurities that don’t show up in headline employment numbers, including any fears that Britain’s 
Immigration may have more pull as an issue of sovereignty. Those who support Brexit believe that the European Union has taken too many powers from the British government. Britain must now abide by European Union rules that allow the union’s citizens freedom of movement across the region. This generally prevents Britain from placing restrictions on legal immigration from nations in the European Union.
By coming out of the union, it would regain that power. And taking that back might seem particularly important to those voters who fear that Britain will have to take in large numbers of refugees from the Middle East and North Africa who have fled to Europe.
Still, the “leave” camp may just be enjoying a brief moment in the sun. The “remain” side may recapture strength as the vote gets closer, especially if the economic costs of leaving begin to seem too high to the voters. Brexit could cause stocks in British companies to plunge, and bond yields to rise. The pound is already heading lower. After leaving, Britain’s exporters might not have the 
Peter Kellner, an experienced British pollster, 
That is hardly the most reassuring prediction for those who want Britain to stay in the European Union. But it may be all they have to cling to in the next two and a half weeks.