
LONDON — Theresa May, the front-runner to become Britain’s next prime minister, revealed in 2013 that she had been given a diagnosis of Type 1 diabetes, a condition that requires daily insulin injections.
Asked later how she felt about the diagnosis, she said her approach to it was the same as toward everything in her life: “Just get on and deal with it.”
That kind of steeliness has propelled her to center stage in the aftermath of Britain’s vote to leave the European Union and the feuding that erupted in the Conservative Party over who would succeed David Cameron, the current prime minister, 
Conservative lawmakers began voting on Tuesday to winnow the 
Ms. May, 59, is the country’s longest-serving home secretary in half a century, with a reputation for seriousness, hard work and avoiding the intrigue and treachery that has gripped her party. She is one of a growing number of women in traditionally male-dominated British politics rising to the upper echelon of leadership.
“I know I’m not a showy politician,” Ms. May said on Thursday. “I don’t tour the television studios. I don’t gossip about people over lunch. I don’t go drinking in Parliament’s bars.”
One former colleague in Parliament, Tim Yeo, recalled that Ms. May would attend his parties, but that she was not the type “to attract a circle of people around her roaring with laughter.” That may be just right for the times, he said, because “her caution will stand her in good stead when there is chaos all around.”
Another colleague, Ken Clarke, said Tuesday in 
transcript
London - 30 June 2016
SOUNDBITE (English) Theresa May, Conservative MP and British Home Secretary
“First, Brexit means Brexit. The campaign was fought, the vote was held, turnout was high and the public gave their verdict. There must be no attempts to remain inside the EU, no attempts to re-join it through the back door, and no second referendum. The country voted to leave the European Union and it is the duty of the government and parliament we do just that. Second, there should be no general election until 2020. There should be a normal Autumn statement, held in the normal way, at the normal time and no emergency budget. And there should be no decision to invoke article 50 until the British negotiating strategy is agreed and clear which means article 50 should not be invoked before the end of this year. Third, we should make clear that for the foreseeable future there is absolutely no change in Britain’s trading relationships with the EU or other markets. And until a new legal agreement is reached with the EU, which will not happen for some time, the legal status of British nationals living or working in Europe will not change and neither will the status of the EU nationals in Britain.”
Ms. May’s tenacity has drawn parallels not only to Ms. Thatcher but also to another methodical woman in politics, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, a clergyman’s daughter, like Ms. May.
Born in 1956, Ms. May grew up mainly in Oxfordshire, an only child who was first drawn to the Conservative Party at age 12. A conscientious student (a goody two-shoes, she once told The Daily Telegraph), she never rebelled against her religious upbringing and remains a regular churchgoer. Tellingly, her sports hero was Geoffrey Boycott, a solid, stubborn cricketer who specialized in playing the long game.
Like Mr. Cameron and Boris Johnson, the former London mayor who 
Politics was important to her, and she attended the famous Oxford Union debating society and joined the university’s Conservative Association. At one of the association’s gatherings, a fellow student — 
Ms. May has described her husband, who went on to become an investment banker, as her rock. The couple has no children. “It just didn’t happen,” she 
Ms. May worked in financial services, including for a time at the Bank of England, while pursuing her political ambitions. She won a seat in Parliament in 1997, representing Maidenhead, a prosperous town west of London, just as her party was entering a long spell out of power. She rose quickly through the Conservative ranks and gained national attention with a jolting speech at an annual party convention, an occasion usually used to flatter party activists.
“Our base is too narrow, and so, occasionally, are our sympathies,” she warned her colleagues. “You know what some people call us: the nasty party.”
When the Conservatives returned to power after the 2010 election in a coalition with the Liberal Democrats, she was promoted to home secretary, one of the prime jobs in government — a break that might not have happened had Nick Clegg, the Liberal Democrats’ leader, demanded the post for himself. Instead, he became deputy prime minister without a departmental brief, setting Ms. May on her way.
At the Home Office, she resisted pressure from the American government to extradite Gary McKinnon, a Briton accused of computer hacking, citing human rights concerns. But she negotiated a treaty with Jordan that allowed Britain to extradite Abu Qatada, a radical Islamic preacher. His extradition had been obstructed by the European Court of Human Rights, which feared he might face torture in Jordan.
Ms. May also won respect by confronting a powerful interest group, the Police Federation, which represents rank-and-file officers. In a speech to the group in 2014, she listed a series of police failings, demanded change and was greeted with stony silence.
According to Norman Baker, a Liberal Democrat who served under her in the Home Office during the coalition government, Ms. May is politically “not very liberal” and personally “hard as nails,” with a willingness to stand up even to the prime minister on policy issues. “You don’t survive as home secretary for six years without some form of aptitude,” Mr. Baker said.
“I don’t want to sound too positive, because I wouldn’t want her as prime minister,” he added, “but I would rather have her than the rest of those that are standing, because at least she is competent.”
Her political Achilles’ heel is immigration, which is part of her responsibility as home secretary. Mr. Cameron promised to reduce net migration into Britain to fewer than 100,000 people a year, but the target has repeatedly been missed.
Ms. May could not curb arrivals from inside the European Union, who are legally entitled to settle in Britain. But arrivals from outside the bloc, which the government can control, have also remained stubbornly high. Over all, the net figure for 2015 was more than 330,000.
Ms. May is regarded as being more right wing than Mr. Cameron, though she supported his legalization of same-sex marriage. When the European Union referendum was called, it was touch-and-go whether she would campaign for or against membership.
In the end, she supported Mr. Cameron’s bid to stay in the bloc, but she kept very quiet. That allows her to present herself as a unity candidate to a parliamentary party that was deeply split by the issue.
However, it also means that any deal she could negotiate with the European Union over Britain’s future ties to the bloc would face close scrutiny from the union’s more ideological critics. That would leave her limited room to maneuver on the central issue, Britain’s access to the European Union’s single market of goods and services. Such access normally entails accepting free movement of workers, but that is anathema to those who want to reduce immigration.
Ms. May sought to reassure hard-liners last week by promising there would be no attempt to remain inside the European Union or to rejoin it through the back door.
“Brexit means Brexit,” she said firmly, suggesting that if it falls to her to negotiate a British withdrawal from the European Union, she will, as ever, just get on and deal with it.