
LONDON — When 
But who might threaten these shores sufficiently to trigger a response? Well, she said, “the threats from countries such as 
For some, Mrs. May’s easy assumption of the Cold Warrior’s mantle might raise no eyebrows at all. After a six-year stint as home secretary, she said, “I am familiar with the threats facing our country,” working closely with the security elite including MI5, Britain’s domestic spy agency.
But, for others, her reference to Russia — and to President Vladimir V. Putin specifically — drew memories of a more malleable approach to Moscow, depicted quite recently as a potential ally.
In her dealings with what was labeled an act of nuclear terrorism involving Russia, for instance, Mrs. May sought for years to gag an official inquiry into the death of a former K.G.B. officer, 
Her stance, she said, reflected concerns about “international relations,” widely assumed to be code for Britain’s ties to the Kremlin.
A panel of judges finally overruled her. The inquiry’s head, Sir Robert Owen, concluded in January that Mr. Putin himself “probably” approved the killing in 2006. Mrs. May said the finding “does not come as a surprise.” So why the earlier reluctance?
Of course, politicians tend to twist and turn in their response to what Harold Macmillan, a former prime minister, is said to have termed “
But since 
Boris Johnson, arguably the most flamboyant Brexiteer, dropped out of the race for high office, and 
Mr. Johnson, too, had some rowing back to do, not least on the Western insistence on the ouster President Bashar al-Assad of Syria — a policy he is now supposed to support.
The about-face might be interpreted as reflecting a kind of pragmatism — albeit at a time of yearning for principled politicians — or perhaps indifference to a past about to be subsumed into an indistinct future.
This is a time of fast footwork and not-so-nimble reinvention. Labour, the main opposition party, is close to implosion; Scotland has revived talk of secession; and debate has resurfaced about stronger ties between Northern Ireland and the Irish Republic.
At a news conference in London this week, American reporters grilled Mr. Johnson about a catalog of half-truths, untruths and insults by the Brexiteers. “
During the campaign, Mr. Johnson and his followers kindled fears of mass migration into Britain following what they portrayed as Turkey’s looming entry into the European Union — even then an improbable notion.
After 