
ECONOMY
On Monday, Janet L. Yellen, chairwoman of the Federal Reserve, will be among those at the European Central Bank’s annual gathering of economists and central bankers in Sintra, Portugal. Officially, the high-level thinkers and policy makers will be discussing macroeconomic policy and financial regulation at the three-day meeting. But it’s a safe bet that the buzz will be about the 
BANKING
The Federal Reserve will tell the nation’s largest banks on Wednesday whether they passed or failed their annual stress tests. The 33 largest banks learned last week how they broadly performed when the Fed announced the first round of test results. But on Wednesday, they will find out whether they got a passing or failing grade, and whether they will be able to follow through with their plans to distribute money to shareholders through dividends and share buybacks. Most of the banks 
TECHNOLOGY
Yahoo will hold its annual shareholder meeting on Thursday. There are no big questions on the ballot since the company avoided a threatened proxy fight in April after 
PHARMACEUTICALS
Last year, Jardiance 
Like other drugs for type 2 diabetes, Jardiance, also known as empagliflozin, was allowed onto the market based on its ability to lower blood sugar, not to reduce complications of diabetes.
In documents released on Friday, the F.D.A. said there were various shortcomings in the data from the trial. For instance, Jardiance did not reduce the risk of nonfatal heart attacks and strokes, and the study was not designed to measure its effect on heart failure. Still, the staff acknowledged that looking only at death from cardiovascular causes, the drug was effective. “We believe these documents should be a relief,” Vamil K. Divan, an analyst at Credit Suisse who follows Lilly, said in a note on Friday. ANDREW POLLACK
AIRLINES
Ever since United merged with Continental in 2010, their flight attendants have been operating as if 
BOND FINANCING
On Friday, Puerto Rico is expected to default on scheduled debt payments totaling $1.9 billion, its biggest and 
Some of Puerto Rico’s creditors are still trying to negotiate debt restructuring. In Washington, 