
Did the European Union break itself?
Its critics say that it has not been sufficiently responsive — and that this is one of the main reasons Britain voted to leave. One way to see if that’s true is to look at immigration, the issue that sat at the heart of the “Brexit” campaign.
Citizens of one European Union country can move to and work in any other country of the union. Britain, in part because its economy has been performing strongly, has attracted higher levels of immigration in recent years.
Look at the numbers. From 1970 till 1999, there was an average annual inflow of 243,000 long-term immigrants, according to British government statistics. This more than doubled to an average of 552,000 from 2000 through the end of 2014. Currently, around half the immigrants are from the European Union, roughly half of those from eastern European countries like Poland and Romania.
It’s easy to see how it fostered a belief in some quarters that immigrants from such countries were pulling down wages and using up public services. This belief appears to have bolstered support in Britain for leaving the European Union. One of the last polls before the Brexit vote, 
These arguments hold some water. The United States, a nation of immigrants, has controls on immigration. And at times, the European Union has allowed countries to place “transitional controls” on immigration. Why didn’t it do so for Britain? Was this a classic case of a system not flexible enough to adapt?
Europe’s leaders see things very differently. All political entities, including democratic ones, have principles that they consider nonnegotiable. For the European Union, free movement of people and workers is one. Just as Florida does not bar migration from New York, the Netherlands cannot say no to migration from Spain.
Supporters of the European Union can argue that it has in fact bent to Britain’s demands. In February, it 
And, as some have argued, the British government didn’t have to wait for the European Union to do more to deal with any negative impacts of immigration. Gordon Brown, a former British prime minister, on Wednesday 
Still, this is a sobering moment for leaders of the European Union. Brexit has revealed the gap between the governed and the government of Europe.
A well-functioning system of government can usually deal with competing forces in such a way that they don’t lead to drastic outcomes. Even when voters are mad, they don’t go for extreme solutions if they think their representatives will one day deliver. If enough people believe that the system is sufficiently responsive, it will probably survive.
The United States has not fractured since the Civil War, despite any flaws and abuses of government institutions. Its propensity for change is one reason something like a “
One of the European Union’s biggest flaws is that it sets grand plans in motion — like the euro and the free movement of people — and then fails to come up with adequate responses when those ambitions backfire in some way. The euro’s survival is not guaranteed as long as Europe’s economy stays sluggish and unemployment remains at stratospheric levels in some countries. Immigration may rise to unpopular levels in countries other than Britain.
No, the European Union did not break itself. But it still has time, and opportunities, to do so.