
LONDON — British voters will go to the polls this month to decide whether their country should remain in the European Union. As the date, June 23, approaches, the “leave” and “remain” campaigns are dialing up the volume, with claims and counterclaims flying, many with only a tenuous relationship to facts.
According to those who favor leaving the bloc, Britain is the victim of faceless, highly compensated bureaucrats in Brussels who meet in secret and churn out off-the-wall regulations costing businesses billions of pounds a year. They say British citizens are subjected to taxes and other measures by a supposedly unaccountable European Parliament, while Britain as a whole sends far more money each year to Brussels than it gets back. Above all, perhaps, they say Britain is virtually powerless to stop the influx of migrants — more than 300,000 arrived last year.
Britain will hold a referendum on Thursday on whether to leave the European Union, a decision nicknamed “Brexit.”
Those who support remaining in the bloc play down those issues, focusing on what a seemingly inexhaustible supply of government officials, economists, bankers and business executives call the dire consequences of leaving: a weakened currency, job losses, slower growth, depressed trade, the end of London’s status as a world financial capital and a loss of influence in European affairs. Immigrants, just over half from European Union member states, give the economy energy, youth and creativity, they say, contributing to the economic vitality that makes multicultural London the envy of the world.
Some have called the campaign the “
Here are a few of the claims, and some judgments about their veracity:
According to the 
That’s about £190 million a week, a little more than half of what Vote Leave claims. It is roughly 0.5 percent of British gross domestic product and around 1.3 percent of the current British budget of about £770 billion.
_____
_____
_____
It depends on your assumptions, but some loss of national income is inevitable.
Those who favor staying in the bloc cite 
The figure cited represents an annual loss of gross domestic product per household after 15 years, estimating 6.2 percent lower growth nationally by 2030. But this does not translate to cash, and it is based on numerous assumptions.
And, of course, there is no way of knowing what kind of relationship Britain would have with the European Union after a so-called 
Still, every alternative the Treasury examined would reduce G.D.P., a position accepted by most economists.
_____
Pressures, absolutely. Unfunded, not exactly.
An estimated 85 percent of non-British European Union citizens in Britain are economically active, contributing a net £22 billion to the Treasury.
But is immigration “uncontrolled”?
Citizens of European Union countries have the right to live and work in any member state. But Britain, which is not a part of the 
Net annual migration to Britain rose slightly, to 333,000, in 2015, 
Britons migrate to other European Union countries, too, especially retirees who can live more cheaply elsewhere and still get free medical benefits. About 300,000 Britons left the country last year — more than the 184,000 European Union citizens who moved to Britain. About one million Britons live in Spain, about 255,000 in Ireland and about 175,000 in France
Britain has taken 
As for strains that 
Rapid population increases in some cities and towns across Britain have put pressure on hospitals, housing, schools and policing. Since the 2000s, the East Midlands and Northern England have experienced the biggest percentage increases in non-British-born populations.
A 2011 
But immigrants also contribute substantially to the National Health Service, which relies on them to function.
Immigrants make up at least 20 percent of the service’s work force. There is a chronic shortage of nurses, radiologists and emergency medicine specialists, among others, according to a 
_____
The macroenomic claims cite a Treasury study looking at the 
Economists from both sides of the membership debate agree that there would be a short-term economic shock and slower growth. But estimates of how much vary, and the Treasury’s numbers are considered a bit pessimistic, but generally correct.
As for more-expensive vacations, Mr. Cameron points to the likelihood of a weaker pound, coupled with increased airfares and higher cellphone roaming charges. By 2018, he says, the cost for four people to take a nine-night vacation in Spain would be £225 more. For two weeks in the United States, it would be £620 more.
Again, there are many assumptions. But those who favor remaining in the European Union hope that voters will take note of the specific figures, even if based on unprovable estimates and judgments about the future.
_____
To some extent, the truth is in the eye of the beholder on this one. The 
Britain has the 
_____
There is no rule on how, or how many, bananas may be sold.
Mr. Johnson has also said that after leaving the union, “U.K. asparagus will be just as sprouting, just as delicious, in fact even better!”