
LONDON — With a referendum on British membership in the European Union four weeks away, new figures released on Thursday showing a rise in immigration re-energized the debate over an issue that has been seized on by the campaign to leave the bloc.
Net migration rose to 333,000 in 2015, an increase of 20,000 compared to the previous year and the second-highest figure on record, 
The figure was still far above the goal set by the government, which 
Although the office described the increase as statistically insignificant, the report immediately assumed political importance as the June 23 referendum approaches.
The campaign to leave has increasingly focused on 
Britain will hold a referendum on Thursday on whether to leave the European Union, a decision nicknamed “Brexit.”
Citizens of member states can freely travel and work in any European Union country, and Britain, with its healthy economy and low unemployment, has attracted many workers from Eastern and Southern Europe.
The number of European Union immigrants in the latest figures was estimated at 184,000, compared with 174,000 in 2014.
Although the rise in Britain’s net immigration was prompted mainly by a statistical quirk — a decline in the number of Britons emigrating — the figures are an embarrassment to Prime Minister David Cameron.
Boris Johnson, a leading campaigner for a British withdrawal — frequently referred to as 
The campaign to remain in the European Union has accused its opponents of exaggerating the connection between membership and immigration, pointing to comments from 
The statistics did nothing to suggest that sort of population flow, but they did underline the fact that immigration had remained above the government’s goal.
Advocates for keeping Britain in the European Union said that withdrawing from the bloc would not be an answer to rising immigration, and would damage the British economy.
“Leaving the E.U. is absolutely no panacea or silver bullet whatever some may suggest,” he added.
David Blunkett, a former home secretary under Labour who once opposed British membership of the forerunner of the European Union but now wants the country to remain in the bloc, said that greater cooperation between European nations, including Britain, was essential.
“Working together to tackle the causes, to reduce the flow and to manage what is inevitable,” he said, “must be the only rational way of proceeding in a world which cannot be wished away, and where global events have to be dealt with on a global scale.”
One business federation also expressed concern about the tone of the discussion. In a statement, Seamus Nevin, the head of employment and skills at the federation, the Institute of Directors, said the public was “being very poorly served by the current level of the debate on immigration in this country.”
“Employment is at a record high, and there are big skills gaps that employers cannot fill domestically,” he said. “Despite the overblown rhetoric that today’s figures have sparked, the actual numbers have not changed much in the last year.”