
Here we go again. Yet another failure in the world of election forecasting.
Britain’s decision to leave the European Union on Thursday was a big surprise. As late as 6 p.m. Eastern in the United States, less than five hours before the results became clear, betting markets gave “Remain” an 88 percent chance to win the election, but it wound up losing by four percentage points.
The forecasting error wasn’t confined to bettors, either. Financial markets didn’t anticipate “Brexit,” resulting in a decisive correction in equity and currency markets that usually would have already been priced into trading.
In a sense, the E.U. referendum joins a pretty long list of election forecasting errors. But this one was a bit different: It was not a cataclysmic polling failure.
The polls consistently indicated that there was a very real chance that Britain would vote to leave. Polling averages even showed “Leave” with a lead for most of the last month; over all, 17 of the 35 surveys conducted in June showed the Leave side with the edge, while just 15 showed Remain ahead.
Yet at the same time, betting markets indicated that Remain was a clear favorite. The arguments for making Remain a favorite were understandable, but in retrospect, some look more like wishful thinking than a fair-minded assessment of the data:
■ Polls in Britain had some poor results in the last few years, including in the Scottish referendum and recent parliamentary elections. In the United States, referendum polls can also often be less accurate than general election surveys. In itself, this wasn’t a good reason to discount the possibility of Brexit. But it was used to discount the polls.
■ There were plenty of undecided voters, and it was assumed that undecided voters would break toward the status quo. This was one of the prevailing interpretations of why the polls were wrong about Scottish independence, but oddly, it’s the opposite of the conventional wisdom in American elections — that undecided voters break toward the challenger. There isn’t a tremendous amount of evidence to believe that either interpretation is an especially solid rule of thumb.
■ Most surveys showed that voters thought that Remain would win, and there is a fairly sizable body of evidence that this type of question — about who will win rather than who someone will vote for — does a pretty good job of predicting electoral outcomes. Not this time.
■ Betting markets showed that Remain was favored, and again, there’s plenty of evidence that betting markets are a fairly reliable predictor of election results. Obviously, they were not.
It’s not clear why the betting markets were so confident. Perhaps it was in part because of some combination of all of the previous points, but it might have been a dose of wishful thinking from a pool of relatively affluent globalist gamblers who simply didn’t believe that Brexit could really happen.
■ Finally, the late polls really did break toward Remain, especially after the British Labour Party member Jo Cox 
Of course, a 0.5-point lead really isn’t much at all. But the late gains were enough to make Remain a fairly clear favorite in the minds of many — after all, Remain was favored even when it trailed in the polls.
One could certainly argue that the polls were “wrong” in the sense that they tended to show a slight Remain advantage heading into the vote count. But it was clearly a distinct possibility that Brexit would win, based on the available survey data. So it’s hard to argue that this was a big polling failure, and it’s a bit strange that the financial markets appear to have been caught completely by surprise.
If there’s a lesson here, it’s a fairly straightforward one: Don’t get too confident in contests when the polls show a very tight race.
There might be a somewhat more subtle lesson here as well, one that ought to resonate in the United States after the rise of Donald Trump as the presumptive Republican nominee. Well-educated, establishment-minded analysts — whether in journalism, finance or betting markets — may have a tendency to discount the willingness of populist, conservative and less educated voters to support candidates and policies that previously seemed unfathomable, even when the polls say it could really happen.
In the case of Mr. Trump, the early skepticism was justified — given that early polls are generally not accurate in primary elections. Perhaps the same skepticism of early E.U. referendum polls was justified as well.
But by the time Election Day comes around, the polls aren’t so bad that they can be dismissed out of hand. There was no reason to be surprised by the result, even if people believed that Remain was likelier to prevail.