
LONDON — Amid worries that “Brexit” had taken the air out of the art market, Sotheby’s at its evening contemporary sale on Tuesday provided a shot of oxygen when a painting by Jenny Saville sold for 6.8 million British pounds, or about $9 million, to the 
A mix of currency discount and collectors looking for a safe haven may have helped Sotheby’s, which sold 87 percent of its 46 lots, bringing a total of £52.2 million, or about $69.4 million, slightly above the pre-sale high estimate of £50 million, or $66.4 million,with bidders from 41 countries.
“London is still a very vibrant hub of the art market,” said Alex Branczik, Sotheby’s head of contemporary art in Europe, at the post-auction news conference. “The passion for art collecting overrides the broader concerns of the economy.”
Still, that was a marked decline from last year’s comparable sale of £130.4 million, or $204.7 million, though that had 58 lots.
The Sotheby’s results came on the heels of a sale at Phillips on Monday night where an Anselm Kiefer sold to a telephone bidder for £2.4 million, or roughly $3.2 million — four times the high estimate. Christie’s contemporary evening sale comes on Wednesday.
“So far, this week’s London auctions have been strong,” said Elizabeth Szancer, an art adviser. “This evening, Sotheby’s did well, and Brexit was not in the auction room.”
The underbidder on the Saville was Larry Gagosian, whose gallery represents Ms. Saville and is currently showing her work at its Davies Street gallery here.
American and Asian collectors who came looking for bargains at the London auctions this week in light of the depreciated pound may have been disappointed. A number of the works sold for more than their high estimates, including Keith Haring’s 1989 “The Last Rainforest,” which sold for £4.2 million, or $5.6 million, to a telephone bidder represented by the Sotheby’s executive Amy Cappellazzo after intense back and forth with Gabriela Palmieri, chairwoman of contemporary art at Sotheby’s Americas, who was on the phone with another bidder.
“The Last Rainforest” has been in the collection of 
“It may be that Brexit has a good effect on art because it makes collectors who think of art in dollars have a 10 percent discount,” said the New York dealer Helly Nahmad. “It makes people want to buy art instead of keeping cash in uncertain financial markets.”
Three works by Jean Dubuffet brought strong prices, including “Barbe de Lumiere des Aveugles” from 1959, which sold for £3.2 million, about $4.2 million.
The artist Adrian Ghenie continued his winning streak, with his painting “The Hunted” (2010) selling for £1.9 million, or about $2.5 million, and his “Self-Portrait as a Monkey” (2011) for £665,000, or about $886,000, triple its pre-sale estimate.
“There is still a lot of money around,” said Alex Lachmann, a private art dealer based in London and Cologne, Germany. “Wealthy people make money in this kind of crisis and they’re looking to buy important things. The exchange rate was very important. There were a lot of American buyers.”
The night’s exchange rate was 1.33 pounds to the dollar — down 10 percent from 1.49 on Thursday, the day of the European Union referendum.