
What is of note here is that there is an enormous amount of fan activity. ISIS, pro-ISIS accounts that are loosely affiliated with the group or that are close to the group are tweeting about it, are putting out images of the carnage. One very well-known account put out a one-sentence message that said, ‘France :)’ That activity has been wrong in the past … But the volume of it is indicative. The volume here is what we saw after the Paris attacks and Brussels attacks, and it can act as a kind of weather vane. … When it starts to crescendo, it typically tends to lead to a claim of responsibility.
I think that one of Prime Minister May’s messages was that the security and defense cooperation was continuing. She pointed out that the U.K. and France have been allies on security measures for decades and would be allies again. After all, the Brexit decision was motivated a lot by concerns about immigration, and I think terror is a part of that. … I don’t think the geopolitical alliance between Britain and France is any way in doubt.
I talked to so many family members of people who are affected by officer-involved shootings, and we don’t usually go back to ask, ‘How are your kids are doing?’ Tamir Rice’s sister lost 50 pounds after she witnessed her brother getting shot. Oscar Grant, who was killed in California — his daughter was ducking from police at 5 years old. … In reality, they’re really carrying this very adult pain, and their parents are really, really worried. I talked to so many families that think they’re going to have these children that are going to be afraid for the rest of their lives.
Dallas is at a very interesting point right now because, on the one hand, when you walk around downtown, it’s a very relaxed, typical city. There’s a bunch of school kids that were coming into my hotel as I was leaving getting ready for some sort of event. And yet on the other hand, there is a hint of tension, and there’s just a lot of grief. I talked to one police officer yesterday, and he said that it took him 30 minutes to get from his car to go inside a store and buy a Coke and then walk out because so many people stopped him to shake his hand, to hug him … ask him how he was doing. That really sort of captures for me what the city is going through right now.
It’s historically the case that when you’re a vulnerable congressman or senator you do look to grab on to presidential coattails. You hope for, if nothing else, infrastructure support, something like that. We see nothing of that sort happening here. We don’t know that Trump, for sure, is going to have a negative determinative effect on the down-ballot situation. We do know a couple of things: First, that no one believes he will have a positive effect.
I talked to a few dozen people over the weekend and this week, really only five days since this game was released, and most of the people that I ran into have been in the 20s and 30s [age] range, which seems to be the sweet spot for this sense of nostalgia that is really cool to me … with millennials of a certain age that have never really had this nostalgia before for things that came back from their childhood. … I had no real investment in Pokémon as a kid, but it’s still this familiar thing that I grew up with and can really come back to. And that’s been something that everyone’s saying.