
IT’S about time Britain was led by a “bloody difficult woman,” as the new leader of the Conservative Party and prime minister, Theresa May, was 
The term “boys’ club” seems to have been coined for the men who led Britain so clumsily to Brexit, without predicting the result, thinking through the consequences or mapping out a plan. Their résumés are studded with all the hallmarks of privilege: Eton College, Oxford University and the Bullingdon Club, the secretive student dining society, notorious for its right-wing politics and legendary debauches. The former prime minister David Cameron, the former mayor of London Boris Johnson and the former chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne were all members.
One Old Etonian 
But if anyone is getting whipped now, it’s the Bullingdon boys. Their political gambles and jousting have led to the Brexit vote, financial turmoil, economic uncertainty, a divided country and the prospect of a long, arduous withdrawal from Europe.
Bravo, chaps!
And now women are coming in, not to crawl or neigh, but to sort out the chaos. As Britain’s business minister, Anna Soubry, 
Ms. May won the leadership after her chief rival, the energy minister, Andrea Leadsom, dropped out of the race. The new prime minister, the first woman to hold the office since Margaret Thatcher’s resignation in 1990, will negotiate constitutional arrangements after Brexit with Scotland’s and Northern Ireland’s first female ministers, Nicola Sturgeon and Arlene Foster, respectively.
A Conservative member of the House of Lords, Anne Jenkin, 
Hmm. Less testosterone may be factually true, but the reversion to such obvious stereotypes is frustrating. While Ms. May, a vicar’s daughter, has positioned herself smartly on the side of “Conservatism with a conscience,” promising to look after “those left behind,” she has also quickly attracted the Thatcherite label of Iron Lady, one who defends her positions “tigerishly.” As though it was still surprising in 2016 that a woman might be resolute 
Stereotypes even decided, in some sense, the leadership contest itself, after Ms. Leadsom gave an interview to The Times of London in which she suggested that she would make a better leader because “being a mum means you have a very real stake in the future of our country.” (Ms. May had 
There followed the sound of millions of women smacking their palms against their foreheads. Ms. Leadsom apologized, but the outcry was immediate. Within moments, the hashtag #AsAMother sprang up, along with a torrent of sarcastic tweets, along 
To be sure, we need for it to be easier for women to have children 
Given that many women struggle to balance the weight of domestic responsibilities with their career or public role, isn’t it a bit much to be asked to do the housework in politics, too? Must we really shift only from crawling on the floor to mopping it?
When Johanna Sigurdardottir, who was Iceland’s first woman prime minister, 
a woman always arrives 
Fabulous. A millennium of fighting for the right to exercise power in the same realms as men, and when we do, we are asked to clean up their garbage.
The fact that a cluster of men lead the world merits no comment. But if women start to slowly enter the ranks — Theresa May, Angela Merkel in Germany, possibly Hillary Clinton in the United States — it’s treated not as the normal course of democratic politics, but as some kind of gynocratic coup d’état: a new “
To see the entry of women into global leadership positions as an invasion by a monstrous regiment of Iron Ladies, nannies and mop-wielding matrons suggests that our notions of mature women in power urgently need updating. Nevertheless, we’re all hoping the windows to the boys’ club will be opened soon. Cigars stink.