
LONDON — In more than two decades working in the financial district here, Paul O’Connor cannot recall a more uncertain time.
Interest rates look set to stay near historically low levels, much of Europe is struggling to generate economic growth, and there are worries that central banks may be running out of ammunition.
Add to that a factor that is rising in importance and could play a dominant role next year: politics.
The coming negotiations over Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union, the general elections in France and Germany and the political turbulence in Italy all affirm that the region’s biggest economies are in flux.
“It feels like we’re skating on thin ice,” Mr. O’Connor, who leads a team at Henderson Global Investors that makes investments across multiple types of assets, said during an interview at the company’s offices here. “Politics has a bigger influence on markets than any time I’ve known.”
“Whatever your views of the world are, even putting a portfolio together is quite tricky,” he said.
Mr. O’Connor, a native of Dundalk, Ireland, who first began working in the financial district in 1995 after a career as a management consultant, rattled off a list of issues that could affect prices on financial markets: unrest in the Middle East, instability in Turkey, risks in Russia.
But none will dominate the coming year, he said, like the so-called Brexit.
“We’re now moving into the next phase of it, where the market is really beginning to try and calibrate what kind of Brexit we’re going to get,” said Mr. O’Connor, as he sat in a conference room with a view of the City of London — the British capital’s financial district.
Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain has said she will begin formal talks on the country’s exit from the European Union by March. Analysts, particularly in the financial markets, worry that an attempt to appease the pro-Brexit wing of her governing Conservative Party by focusing on restricting immigration could leave Britain without tariff-free access to the European Union.
Other factors are also complicating things for Mr. O’Connor and his team, who manage 4.7 billion pounds, or about $5.75 billion, across multiple types of assets: stocks, bonds and other investments.
With interest rates at or near historic lows, central banks like the Bank of England and the European Central Bank have few options left, when it comes to monetary policy, to try to support economies across the region.
And years of those near-zero rates combined with quantitative easing — when central banks effectively print money to buy bonds, hoping to push other investors into riskier assets and bolster economic growth — have also left bond yields at multidecade lows.
For traditional investors, driven by a rule of thumb that 60 percent of an investment portfolio should be in stocks and the remainder largely in bonds to offset those risks, such guidelines no longer seem to apply.
Government bonds, Mr. O’Connor said, “don’t have the role that they once had.”
So where do investors put their money?
In his view, with the relative safety of Western economies in question, emerging markets have appeal.
“The political risk in emerging markets is diminishing quietly, while it’s picking up in the major markets,” he said.
Stocks in developing countries and emerging markets, he continued, have “a really important role in portfolios.”
“I think a world where we get a bit more macro momentum, a world where you have slightly higher inflation, a world where commodities continue to steady or grind higher is quite a constructive one for emerging markets.”
Flipping through a PowerPoint presentation, Mr. O’Connor pointed to indicators suggesting it was now a good time to increase investments in emerging markets, given the differences in growth rates among developed and emerging markets, and the relative returns for equities in developing countries.
“It’s time to rebuild some exposure.”