
WARSAW — President Obama, acknowledging that the trans-Atlantic alliance faces an unprecedented array of threats from terrorism, migrant flows and an aggressive Russia, said on Saturday that “in good times and in bad, Europe can count on the United States — always.”
“We haven’t simply reaffirmed” the alliance, Mr. Obama said at a news conference. “We’re moving forward with the most significant reinforcement of collective defense any time since the Cold War.”
Mr. Obama spoke in Warsaw at the end of a NATO summit meeting that illustrated how radically the global security situation has changed since he took office in 2009.
Europe, the anchor of the trans-Atlantic alliance, is battling centrifugal forces unleashed by Britain’s vote to leave the European Union. Russia, with which Mr. Obama had tried to cultivate a friendly relationship, continues to be an implacable adversary.
This was the president’s last NATO summit meeting, and the mood was occasionally wistful. During a morning meeting, he chatted warmly with Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain, whose days in office are also winding down. Mr. Obama’s fellow leaders showered him with praise and promised to stay in touch. But the challenges facing the alliance are so acute that the tone was for the most part more urgent than reflective.
The message the leaders hoped to project was that the Western alliance remained united despite fraying ties within the European Union, particularly Britain’s recent vote to leave it, known as Brexit.
“I think this summit has underlined one very important message,” said Mr. Cameron, who after the vote for Brexit, which he had opposed, announced that he will resign by October. “That while Britain may be leaving the European Union, we are not withdrawing from the world, nor are we turning our backs on Europe or on European security.”
The participants adopted a security declaration that expanded on an agreement in Wales in 2014. The member nations pledged to “stand together and act together” against an “unprecedented range of security challenges” that include terrorist attacks within Europe, Russian aggressiveness in Ukraine and elsewhere, and instability throughout the Middle East and North Africa.
“It is a summit with a lot of substance, and it is historic because it takes place at a decisive point for our security,” said the NATO secretary general, Jens Stoltenberg.
NATO had already agreed to establish battalions of 800 to 1,200 multinational troops in Poland, Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia, as well as a brigade of four more battalions to be based in Romania and Bulgaria. The battalion in Poland is to be commanded by the United States and composed almost entirely of American forces.
Mr. Stoltenberg called it “the biggest reinforcement to our collective defense in a generation.”
While the reinforcement was prompted by Russia’s annexation of Crimea in 2014 and by what the Western alliance regards as continuing belligerent behavior from Moscow, NATO leaders insisted the reinforcement did not constitute the advent of a fresh Cold War.
Neither, Mr. Stoltenberg said, has the alliance achieved the closer relationship it wished to forge with Moscow after the collapse of the Soviet Union.
“We are in a new situation, which is different from anything we have experienced before,” he said.
Despite concerns that some NATO nations were softening in their support for sanctions against Russia, Mr. Cameron insisted that the alliance’s message to Russia had not changed.
“We are not seeking confrontation with Russia,” he said. “Indeed, we are working to prevent it. So we will continue to pursue a twin track of deterrence and dialogue.”
Some issues have not changed during Mr. Obama’s presidency. NATO’s leaders agreed to extend its mission in Afghanistan through 2017, after the president’s announcement on Wednesday that the United States would keep 8,400 troops in the country. Mr. Stoltenberg said the alliance was close to reaching its goal of $1 billion to finance the Afghanistan mission.
Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany made clear that worries about mass migration — one million migrants arrived in her country last year from Afghanistan and elsewhere — had factored into the decision to further support the Afghan government.
She said NATO members had told Afghan leaders that they must fight corruption and improve life for the civilian population, “because we saw last year in the great number of migrants who came from Afghanistan that the situation is not yet satisfactory.”
After focusing on strengthening forces within the alliance, NATO shifted its attention on the concluding day to addressing the instability in the Middle East, Ukraine, Afghanistan and Africa.
“This instability has a direct impact on our own societies,” Mr. Stoltenberg said. “It has caused the greatest refugee and migrant crisis since World War II and terrorist groups have staged attacks on our streets.”
He said NATO would concentrate its efforts on providing training for allies outside the alliance. “In the long run, training local forces is more effective than deploying large numbers of our own forces in combat situations,” Mr. Stoltenberg said.
NATO had already been training Iraqi forces, in neighboring Jordan, but under an agreement reached Saturday will begin using multinational troops to provide training within Iraq.
A new “intelligence infusion center” will be established in Tunisia, Mr. Stoltenberg said, to better coordinate antiterrorism initiatives, and NATO surveillance aircraft will be used to provide direct support to alliance operations throughout the region.
NATO’s maritime forces in the Mediterranean will be expanded and the operation renamed Sea Guardian, working in closer cooperation with the European Union’s efforts across the Mediterranean and its anti-smuggling efforts in the Aegean Sea.