
LONDON — For travelers returning to London from distant places struggling for bare-bones survival, the portals of passport control sometimes resemble what 
Out there — in the Middle East, Africa and elsewhere — wars rage, drought crisps the land, democracy strains against despotism.
And, in consequence of such upheaval, a procession unparalleled in modern times of war-zone refugees and other migrants seeking new homes in Europe challenges a political and social order that traces its roots to 17th-century notions of governance and sovereignty.
Here, though, it seems as if the sole prism through which issues are squeezed is a referendum on June 23 on British membership in the European Union — a yes-no decision thrown into even starker relief by President Obama, whose visit to London last week was centered on support for Prime Minister David Cameron’s commitment to remaining in the bloc.
In recent days, too — with huzzahs, gun salutes and the lighting of beacons to fete the 
Whatever else, the ballot will bookend a long-running and visceral argument, confronting Britons with what many depict as an existential choice that has sown division beyond political factions to sunder friends and relatives.
Even the family of George Osborne, the pro-European chancellor of the Exchequer, has been reported to be 
Much of the debate hinges on the unknown — the fear of it for some, the thrill of it for others.
Released from the shackles of membership in the bloc, pro-
Not so, their adversaries say: Outside the European Union, Britain will confront falling living standards, deeper insecurity and rising uncertainties.
Britain will hold a referendum on Thursday on whether to leave the European Union, a decision nicknamed “Brexit.”
Beyond that, though, the arguments pit head against heart. A vote either way is a leap of faith. Indeed, 
The fact that Mr. Obama spoke out determinedly for Britain to remain in the European Union was perhaps the biggest omen for Britons that their international stature may be in jeopardy.
Outside the bloc, Mr. Obama said, Britain would be 
His intervention stirred passions of its own.
“Americans are rebelling against the emergence of an imperial presidency,” the columnist 
Some suspected that Mr. Obama’s support was a maneuver as part of murkier negotiations on a contentious trans-Atlantic trade pact.
Britain has long sought to assure itself that it has a “special relationship” with the United States, built on shared history, values, language and culture.
But the president’s remarks, said 
For those arguing that “a brighter, non-European future beckons,” Mr. Freedland said, “Obama burst that bubble.”
What makes the debate so passionate and all-absorbing is that life for Britain outside the European Union — much as life beyond the looking glass — is terra incognita.
And, as Alice discovers, the answers rarely match up with the questions.
“The more this debate has continued,” 
“This is not just about what you think of Brussels. It’s also what we think of ourselves.”