
LONDON — David, 49, is not looking for love; he is seeking votes, especially from young Britons who are considered more likely to vote for Britain to remain inside the European Union in a coming referendum.
This David — Cameron, the prime minister of Britain — is not joining Tinder, a dating app, a Downing Street spokesman said on Tuesday, nor has he joined TheLADbible, a popular photo and video site for men 16 to 30. But the prime minister’s office did say it is exploring advertising on both services, and looking for other hip ways to get more young people to register and to vote.
Opinion polls and political analysts suggest that up to two-thirds of Britons younger than 25 prefer to remain in the European Union, and the government wants to do all it can to get them to the polls on June 23, since that age group is less likely to bother to vote than those older than 45, who tend to favor the British exit, or “
Last Friday, Mr. Cameron addressed a meeting at Downing Street of representatives from social media networks including Facebook and Twitter to encourage seven million people who are 
Members of Bite the Ballot, a youth campaign group, along with representatives of Google and BuzzFeed, the news website, were also at the meeting last week, which was chaired by Daniel Korski, a special adviser to the prime minister on Europe.
Bite the Ballot is expected to work with Tinder on something like the “Swipe the Vote” program it organized in the United States, where users were presented political issues on the Tinder app to swipe right (approve) or left (reject). There, too, the idea is to try to get younger potential voters to register.
The suggestion that Mr. Cameron had joined Tinder, which he has not done, caused the expected surge of amusement and disgust. In 
Britain will hold a referendum on Thursday on whether to leave the European Union, a decision nicknamed “Brexit.”
Jeremy Corbyn, the Labour Party leader, 66, is also urging the young to vote to remain inside the European Union, but more traditionally, speaking earnestly to student groups.
As the referendum approaches 
In an 
“Napoleon, Hitler, various people tried this out, and it ends tragically,” he said. “The E.U. is an attempt to do this by different methods.”
Britons are used to Mr. Johnson’s extravagant language, but the president of the European Council, Donald Tusk, a former Polish prime minister, on Tuesday 
“When I hear the E.U. being compared to the plans and projects of Adolf Hitler, I cannot remain silent,” he said. “Such absurd arguments should be completely ignored if they had not been formulated by one of the most influential politicians in the ruling party.”
Mr. Johnson “crossed the boundaries of rational discourse, demonstrating political amnesia,” Mr. Tusk said.
But Britons on Tuesday seemed most exercised by the news that the BBC, seeking budget cuts, will ax a 
More than 140,000 people have signed 