
The Fourth of July is my favorite holiday. I am from Philadelphia. And I write a column about media.
What better way, then, to celebrate the Fourth in this space than to quote that great Philadelphian Benjamin Franklin, an editor and signer of the Declaration of Independence and a founding father of the independent American press?
There’s one Franklin statement in particular that has a special resonance right now, something he wrote in his 
The operative phrase is “when truth has fair play.” Now, think about the last year in global and American politics. Then ask yourself, “Does it?”
I can make a pretty strong argument for “does not.”
Exhibit A comes by way of CNN, which waded into new territory a few days ago by hiring Corey Lewandowski, Donald J. Trump’s recently fired campaign manager, as an on-air commentator.
Reporters and media critics have devoted a lot of ink and pixels to Mr. Lewandowski’s hiring. How could the network enlist someone who had been arrested for 
What kind of message was CNN sending by hiring a political operative associated with some of the most aggressive 
But the true journalistic heart stopper was contained in the news that Mr. Lewandowski was bound by what even Mr. Lewandowski described as a “
Neither CNN nor Mr. Lewandowski has provided details about its stipulations (though they should). But The Associated Press unearthed 
The agreement also includes a non-disparagement clause. And it applies during employment with Mr. Trump’s campaign and “at all times thereafter,” which is another way of saying “forever.”
It won’t smash the republic. Still, in a small but significant way, Mr. Lewandowski’s hiring represents a signal moment in political journalism’s evolving embrace of political operatives: A major mainstream news organization is using a commentator who is legally prohibited from sharing the unvarnished truth on the subject — Mr. Trump — he was hired to talk about.
Some of the 
CNN’s thinking apparently holds that Mr. Lewandowski provides pro-Trump balance for the network at a time when many of its regular Republican analysts are Trump detractors. In that case, they could ask, how does a nondisclosure agreement get in the way of Mr. Lewandowski’s role as a Trump booster?
After all, 
But, going back to my fellow Philadelphian, wise old Ben: What happens to the balance between truth and falsehood when an important portion of the national news media hands the political debate over to partisan operatives who, as a rule, skew the facts — or abandon them — in the service of their own political ends or business interests?
There’s a glaring cautionary answer to be found across the pond, in Britain, where the media is avowedly more partisan, especially in the tabloid newspapers that continue to hold great sway.
In the lead-up to the startling vote there to leave the European Union, and for many years before, the larger and more conservative newspapers ran aggressive campaigns pushing for what became known as Brexit.
One of the biggest proponents of the exit was former Mayor 
As Martin Fletcher, a former associate editor of The Times of London, 
As the vote approached, 
The 
After the vote passed, Nigel Farage, a leading Brexit campaigner, said t
“The context for the referendum vote was a public which had been poorly” informed, “if not misinformed about the issue,” the former Guardian editor Alan Rusbridger told me.
The media in the United States is not quite where Britain’s is in terms of partisanship, though it seems to inch closer every year. And cable news is not the sole driver of political knowledge. But it can be the center ring for political discourse, especially in prime time. What happens there can drive a major campaign theme for the following day or longer.
In the case of Mr. Trump’s surrogates, they regularly go on television to push the point of the day from a candidate who, according to the fact-checking organization 
Jeffrey Lord, a Trump supporter and a commentator on CNN, told the CNN host Brian Stelter that such fact-checking analyses were an “
Mr. Lewandowski has frequently wandered 
To its credit, CNN does have a crew of aggressive anchors like 
Mr. Lewandowski told Ms. Burnett he’d call “balls and strikes” in spite of his agreement with Mr. Trump. But when he weighed in on Mr. Trump’s big economic speech last Tuesday, all he saw was a home run (“Mr. Trump’s best speech of the presidential cycle,” he gushed).
Mr. Franklin was all for providing a multitude of voices through his press. “When men differ in opinion, both sides ought to equally have the advantage of being heard by the publick,” he wrote in his “
In a twist on the quote I used above, he added, “When truth and error have fair play, the former is always an overmatch for the latter.”
Let’s give it a try.