
Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch plans to announce today that 
Her decision, coming after criticism of an impromptu meeting 
Separately, 
Amid the turmoil of 
Europeans are jockeying 
The 
If their identities are confirmed, it would be the first time that suspected fighters from Russian-speaking units of the Islamic State have taken part in a major external operation on a Western target.
A Mississippi law protecting those who object 
An Indiana law 
The Pentagon has 
Steven Spielberg’s “
“
Adnan Syed, the Maryland man whose murder conviction was the 
With the threat of the Zika virus growing, we take a look at six of the most common 
After that bit of unpleasantness, soothe your soul with sounds from “
Among our most-read articles: 
Here’s how to find the best 
An ultramarathoner has 
This 
The Continental Congress planned a monument to honor Gen. George Washington even before the Revolutionary War with Britain was over.
It was August 1783, and the new nation had no money to build one. It would take 100 years for a monument to be completed.
That memorial will be a backdrop for Independence Day 
When Washington died in 1799, Congress resolved again to honor the country’s first president. But the political atmosphere was poisoned when Thomas Jefferson was 
Leading citizens gave up on Congress in 1833 and took up the cause. But they needed the Senate’s authorization to build on what is now the National Mall.
The Senate didn’t budge because it was worried it would be left with the bills if the fund-raising fell short and if a half-finished monument was left standing.
Congress finally passed a resolution in 1848 — once more private money had been raised — and the cornerstone was placed on the Fourth of July that year.
The monument reached just above 150 feet when work stopped before the start of the Civil War in 1861. It took the 100th birthday of the U.S. in 1876 for Congress to approve the funding that paid for the completion.
The 555-foot-high obelisk was dedicated on Feb. 21, 1885, the day before Washington’s 153rd birthday, soaring above the capital named after him.