
After Brexit and the election of Donald Trump, it seems alarming that Bulgaria and Moldova, two states formerly under the Kremlin’s yoke, both elected 
The presidencies in these countries are largely ceremonial. Bulgaria, unlike Moldova, is a member of both the European Union and NATO and is not likely to quit either. The elections in both countries were heavily influenced by public frustration with corruption and with living standards that continue to lag behind Western neighbors more than two decades after the collapse of Communist rule.
But the swing away from pro-Western candidates toward those urging better relations with Moscow offers more evidence of growing disenchantment in Eastern Europe with Western liberal attitudes, exacerbated by the tide of immigrants. Bulgaria and Moldova were the latest to be affected by nationalist and anti-globalization sentiments that have spread across Europe and that helped elect Mr. Trump in the United States.
President Vladimir Putin of Russia is bound to take comfort in these developments, which give him hope that Western sanctions over Russia’s annexation of Crimea will soon be lifted. The votes in Bulgaria and Moldova, however, were less an endorsement of Mr. Putin’s rule than a reflection of economic and geographic ties.
Bulgarians have traditionally had close personal and economic ties with the Russians, and the sanctions against Russia have hurt Bulgaria’s economy, the poorest in the E.U. The Socialist-backed president-elect, Rumen Radev — a political novice and former NATO fighter pilot who spent a year training in America — pledged to seek improved relations with Russia, arguing that being pro-European did not mean being anti-Russian. Probably a stronger factor in Mr. Radev’s election was popular anger at the pace of reform under the center-right government of Prime Minister Boiko Borisov, who promptly resigned.
In Moldova, a former Soviet republic, the winning candidate, Igor Dodon, called for a repeal of an association agreement signed with the European Union in 2014, which provoked a painful Russian embargo on Moldovan wine and fruit exports. In Moldova, too, the election was colored by anger over corruption, and especially a bank fraud in 2014 in which $1 billion disappeared.
Whether the presidents can do much to assuage the frustrations of their people is uncertain, especially given the limits on their powers. And there is no evidence that voters in Bulgaria or Moldova want to return to Russian domination. But the Brexit vote and the Trump victory show how popular discontent with disparate issues can lead to unexpected and fateful consequences.
Whatever the individual voters in Bulgaria and Moldova had in mind, their receptivity to warmer relations with Mr. Putin is another blow to Western cohesion at a critical juncture. That makes it all the more important for Western leaders who understand the importance of unity to resist all attempts to turn back the clock.