
Long ahead of its time, the Ryder Cup now risks falling out of step.
No major sporting event has developed a deeper association with the European Union. The European flag — the official symbol of the Union and of the Council of Europe — flies above the courses that host the Cup. Its azure background and gold stars are also prominent on the European team’s equipment and uniforms.
Beethoven’s “Ode to Joy,” the European Union anthem, was played in lieu of individual nations’ anthems at the 2010 Ryder Cup opening ceremony in Wales and was played again at the closing ceremony in 2014 at Gleneagles in Scotland.
But the United Kingdom’s vote in June to leave the European Union could eventually lead to some protocol changes and would certainly change the public perception of the biennial event as a rare sporting vehicle for 
British players remain at the core of the European team and are in a majority this year. Of Europe’s 12 players, seven are British, as is the nonplaying captain, Darren Clarke.
For now, it will be golf and business as usual as Team Europe tries to win its fourth straight Ryder Cup, facing the American team at Hazeltine National Golf Club in Minnesota beginning Friday.
“In terms of the European Tour and the European Ryder Cup team, we’re still one continent,” Clarke said after the Brexit vote. “It makes no difference to us whatsoever because the U.K. is always going to be part of the European continent. So we’re going there as Europe. We will still use the European flag because that is our continental flag, and that is what we’re going to do.”
When it began in 1927, the Ryder Cup matched only Britain and Ireland against the United States. So it remained until 1979 when — with the contest having become essentially no contest — the British and Irish team was opened to golfers from the rest of Europe.
Although the Americans still won convincingly in 1979 and 1981, they won by a single point in 1983 at Palm Beach Gardens in Florida. In 1985, Europe won for the first time, at the Belfry in England, with a team that included Bernhard Langer of Germany and four Spaniards: Seve Ballesteros, Manuel Piñero, José Maria Cañizares and José Rivero.
Europe went on to dominate and has won eight of the past 10 Cups, leading to jests that perhaps the time has come for the Americans to seek help from the rest of their continent.
“There were times in the old days when we could only field five to seven really good players and the rest was a bit weak, while the Americans could have always fielded two teams and they would have been strong,” Langer said in a telephone interview last week. “But that has all changed. Golf has become more popular in Europe. We can now put 20 or 30 guys out there who can compete with the best in the world, no problem. We didn’t have that depth and that strength many, many years ago.”
What they did develop early was a sense of identity rooted not in the common European political project, but in the European Tour.
They might have come from disparate countries and cultures. They might not have shared a native language. But they did all play, in those days, on the same tour, which was and remains a weaker, poorer cousin of the PGA Tour.
The source of the European team’s surprisingly strong esprit de corps is in that disparity and in that desire to create a true rivalry.
“We really wanted to prove we were as good as the Americans,” said Langer, a two-time Masters champion who struggled early in his career to get into PGA Tour events with all the barriers to entry.
Although Langer and the Europeans proved their point repeatedly, the desire endures, even if some of Europe’s stars of today — like Rory McIlroy — now live in Florida and compete week to week on the PGA Tour. Bonding and beating up on Americans has become a habit that is hard to break.
“From our perspective, the Ryder Cup is really much more the PGA Tour against the European Tour,” said Thomas Levet, a former Ryder Cup player from France. “So the Brexit question is not really being posed by the players. It’s continent against continent, tour against tour, not E.U. versus U.S.A.”
The European Union has done its occasional best to move the needle. José Manuel Barroso, then president of the European Commission, spoke at the opening ceremony in 2010, observing that “the European flag features 12 stars; so, too, does Colin Montgomerie’s team.”
But there was already vigorous dissent (and Brexit foreshadowing) as Nigel Farage of the U.K. Independence Party protested that the Ryder Cup was being hijacked.
“This isn’t an E.U. event,” he said in remarks in 2010 reported by The Guardian. “What on earth has it got to do with the European Union? I love the Ryder Cup, but my support is for the continent of Europe.”
Six years later, Farage helped lead Britain’s charge out of the union altogether. Six years later, the European Tour, which is based in England, released a statement that said, “Like all global companies whose main headquarters are in the U.K., we are now in the process of assessing the implications for our business.”
Meanwhile, the Team Europe concept is slowly taking hold elsewhere in sports. The Weber Cup — the tenpin bowling equivalent of the Ryder Cup — was started in 2000 (the Europeans now dominate the Americans in that one, too).
In 2017, 
But European tennis, for all Andy Murray’s success and Wimbledon’s enduring mystique, remains much less British-centric than European golf.
Langer said he did not think “that Brexit is going to have any influence on the Ryder Cup, in terms of the players and how they feel about it.”
Perhaps, but individual attitudes can shift as wider allegiances fray, and politics have a nasty habit of intruding on fields of play.
For now, no golfer from a nation that is not currently a member of the European Union has taken part in the Ryder Cup. And when the Cup returns to Europe in two years, it will be played not in England or Scotland or Wales, but in continental Europe. The 2018 edition will be in France for the first time, at Le Golf National near Paris. The 2022 edition will be in Italy for the first time, at the Marco Simone Golf & Country Club in Rome.
By then, the British players may need a business visa to play in a home Ryder Cup.