
LONDON — A majority of British chief executives are considering moving their headquarters or some of their operations outside Britain as a result of 
Three-quarters of British chief executives surveyed said they had considered relocating part or all of their businesses following the June 23 referendum, which has come to be known as Brexit.
“In our own work, we have seen international clients who had been considering basing European headquarters in the U.K. opt for Ireland instead. Our latest analysis shows that this effect could be exaggerated by U.K. companies moving,” Simon Collins, the chairman of KPMG’s British operations and a senior partner at the firm, said in a statement.
“We hear it time and time again that business needs certainty,” Mr. Collins added. “Policy makers should be really concerned about a leaching of British businesses abroad and should engage with businesses early to understand what assurances they can offer and closely monitor any shifts overseas.”
To be sure, few chief executives have made concrete moves to relocate their businesses. In fact, more than two-thirds of the leaders surveyed remain confident about the future growth prospects of Britain over the next three years. But more than half of those surveyed 
One hundred chief executives in manufacturing, retail, telecommunications and other sectors in Britain were interviewed for the KPMG survey. They all run companies with annual revenue from 100 million pounds, or about $130 million, to more than £1 billion.
Britain has started the clock on leaving the European Union, and will be out of the bloc by March 2019. Here is how “Brexit” has affected business so far.
The new survey data came as 
Boris Johnson, the foreign secretary, 
The survey results also came against the backdrop of better-than-expected economic data in Britain in recent weeks.
In August, the central bank 
According to the 
With that said, the committee said it still believed “the contours of the economic outlook following the E.U. referendum had not changed” and a further cut in rates to just above zero is possible if the economic outlook is “judged to be broadly consistent” with its forecast in August.
The central bank is expected to provide its next round of forecasts for inflation and other economic indicators in November.