
President Obama’s plan to shield millions of immigrants from deportation remains blocked, 
The justices also upheld affirmative action, 
A police officer who drove the van in which Freddie Gray rode before he died in April 2015 
Caesar R. Goodson Jr. faced the most serious count of the six officers charged in connection with Mr. Gray’s arrest, transport and death. Two others have stood trial, with one case ending in a hung jury and the other in an acquittal.
A 
Democrats had tried to force a vote on gun-control measures before Congress began its weeklong recess for the Fourth of July, but Speaker Paul D. Ryan adjourned the House early this morning. He will give a news conference this morning.
The choice could matter more 
Mr. Trump 
And 
But the battle isn’t over. It has moved to western neighborhoods, where some ISIS fighters, many of them foreigners, remain.
The founder of Facebook, 
Engaging frequently in one type of activity while at work may help many of us avoid weight gain. But that activity 
The Philadelphia 76ers have the first pick in the 
With the country’s top leagues becoming less fearful of gambling, the N.H.L. is expected to 
In our global postcards: A cemetery in Canada with the most 
Plus, how 
In “
“
A 
The layout of the keyboard you use today has a lot to do with a machine that you very likely haven’t used — or maybe even seen — in years.
That invention, the “
It wasn’t very successful, partly because typists couldn’t go very fast. The keyboard was laid out alphabetically, and the keys would lock up if letters that were close together were struck too fast in succession.
The solution that the inventor, Christopher Latham Sholes, came up with in the 1870s was to spread out the most commonly used letters across the keyboard to prevent the jams.
It was called the Qwerty keyboard, after the first six letters of its top row, which also has all the letters needed to spell “typewriter.” This may have been done so salesmen could more easily type the new word.
The Qwerty keyboard has long been criticized as inefficient, but it has been the most popular form of English-language typing since 
Early on, typewritten messages were seen as impersonal. Anyone who has received 