
Mr. Trump’s wife, 
_____
The ruling, which will be subject to an expedited appeal, requires the prime minister to secure Parliament’s approval before commencing the so-called Brexit. That would, at minimum, slow the process.
_____
Mr. Duterte has been less successful with his promise, which he says came at God’s request, 
_____
That was Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, the 
And while the fighting rages, politicians, diplomats and tribal sheikhs are trying to figure out how — or even whether — all Iraq’s factions, including 
_____
In France, the migrant crisis has shifted from Calais to Paris, above, where up to 100 
_____
Federal agents are investigating whether race officials and a Russian sports agent conspired to allow athletes to use banned substances.
_____
transcript
High performance automobile manufactures seldom talk about comfort. It’s all

about scorching 0-60 times and lofty lateral g-forces. But McLaren engineers want 

you to know that this, the 570   is tuned for civilian use.  (SOUND UP) Now, starting 

at just over $200,000- 215 as tested- Malibu and Camry are in no danger of loosing 

market share to this.

(ON CAMERA) No, it doesn’t float like the Oldsmobile your parents drove. Compared 

to the 570 S, the GT relaxes the front spring rate by 15 percent in front, 10 percent 

in the rear. And then there are special tires.

With a unique composition, tread pattern and a foam liner of sorts inside, road noise 

is cut by three decibels. Stuff more acoustical material into the cabin and the GT is 

better for road trip duty (SOUND UP) at warp speed if you’re confident law 

enforcement isn’t around. From rest, 60 miles-an-hour is just 3.3 seconds away.

(ON CAMERA) I have been fortunate enough to drive some exotic high performance 

machines lately. Of the bunch, this and the Porsche 911 Turbo S get my vote for best 

everyday driver. It’s not squirrelly at all. 

(SOUND UP) Whoosh!

I’d be happy to tackle hundreds of miles from behind the flat bottom steering wheel. 

Top track speed is 204 miles-per-hour. I’m taking McLarens word to avoid the 

county jail.  

Those special rear tires are driven by a 3.8-liter twin turbo V8 that is tough to see… 

(SOUND UP) but lovely to hear there’ d a whisper of turbo whistle.  562 

horsepower and 443lb pound-feet of torque are on tap. 

(ON CAMERA) Compared to the S model the exhaust is muted (SOUND UP)). 

I’m okay with that.

A seven-speed dual-clutch automatic is smarter than most pilots but there’s a 

manual mode. Driving dynamics can be tailored to your mood. 

Since the exhaust sound is neutered (SOUND UP) it helps to hush the cabin 

appropriately…. for a car of this ilk. 

(ON CAMERA) Okay, this isn’t a really quiet car. You won’t be thinking to 

yourself, it’s just like an old Lexus.

Pushing the 570 nears its lofty limits on public roads is a bad idea for so many 

reasons but I can tell you the rear drive dynamics are loads of fun when the 

pavement bends hard. 

(ON CAMERA) Obviously, few people buy cars this expensive. But vehicles like 

this are important because they pioneer high technology that then trickles down 

to everyday cars.

Perhaps the 570s carbon fiber tub chassis structure will be common in the future. 

Shaving weight improves fuel economy, McLaren aren’t saddled with a gas 

guzzler tax. Anti-lock brakes showed up first on supercars. As you might imagine 

(SOUND UP) these are very good. 

(ON CAMERA) The auto start stop system can be turned off

(SOUND UP) 

Buyers are free to choose from many different leathers and stitching to make the 

car their own. Built in the United Kingdom, 570 feels more hand crafted and small 

volume than cars from Mercedes AMG and Porsche. Some of the pieces border 

on art. Not much storage in here.

Everything from the transmission operation to the unique touchscreen interface 

takes a while to get used to. The power seat operation- by braille, is perhaps the 

worst I’ve used. Do I need mention there’s no back seat? Visibility out the front is 

quite good, but glad this is standard. It’s easy to scrape the chin on low-slung 

cars. A front lift helps.

(ON CAMERA)  Considering this car’s class it has some practicality…

for those long road trips a standard sized suitcase and a purse will tuck into here. 

But wait there’s more. A second piece of luggage is on display; make it the 

better-looking bag.

The swept silhouette in aluminum is especially impressive in person. McLaren 

might want to increase their marketing budget. Most eyeballs that lock on to the 

exotic shape have no idea (It’s a Lamborghini, it’s awesome) what this car is. The 

570GT could be the most outrageous way imaginable to travel anonymously, 

comfortably, and rapidly.
Slogans may not tilt an election, but that doesn’t mean there aren’t phrases to avoid.
Hillary Clinton’s team 
Donald J. Trump famously opted for “Make America Great Again.”
Judging by modern presidential history, they were right to skip themes that incorporated their own names.
Richard M. Nixon’s successful 1972 re-election campaign with “
Ross Perot failed in 1992 with “
The 1996 election featured “
The 21st century has spawned more self-referential slogans.
In 2004, there was Howard Dean’s “Dean For America.” This year, Jeb Bush couldn’t salvage his campaign with “Jeb Can Fix It.”
If 2020’s hopefuls insist on using their names, history suggests they should also incorporate some wit.
Consider Calvin Coolidge’s 1924 bid, “Keep Cool and Keep Coolidge,” or Franklin Pierce in the mid-19th century, who managed to include a predecessor: “