
In a startling rebuke, 52 percent of the country voted to 
The results prompted Prime Minister David Cameron to announce his intent to resign. Mr. Cameron had promised last year to hold the referendum if his party won the general election.
It’s likely to be a 
The 
The Senate has voted to keep a 
Emergency financing to fight the mosquito-borne Zika virus also appears 
A landmark agreement between the Justice Department and a Mississippi county means that, for the first time, a local government must provide services 
Mass incarceration has deepened tensions over racial inequities, law enforcement and justice. In Baltimore, the acquittal of 
A lot of fanfare will greet the 
But our investigation reveals construction flaws that leave the $3 billion project’s safety and economic viability in doubt.
The Civil War drama “
“
The horror film “
The Philadelphia 76ers picked the Louisiana State forward Ben Simmons, an Australian, first over all 
NBC Sports Films visits the Karolyi Ranch, the training center for the U.S. women’s gymnastics team (8 p.m., NBC), and the Women’s Gymnastics Championships are at 9 p.m. on NBC and 
If you could have dinner with one person who is no longer with us, who would it be? 
In our summer series “Not Forgotten,” we’re revisiting some notable June births and deaths: Benazir 
Serve this robust 
For dessert, try this summery version of a 
Tonight is Midsummer, a celebration in 
In ancient times, the festival welcomed the season of human fertility and included rituals to assure a good harvest in the autumn.
Houses get decorated — inside and outside — with garlands and greenery. Many people dance and sing around a newly raised maypole and bonfires are lit to keep evil spirits away.
It’s a very popular day for weddings, and it’s known as a night for romance. Girls and young women are told to pick seven different flowers and put them under their pillows. Then their future husbands are supposed to appear in a dream.
Shakespeare’s popular play “
More than 200 years later, Felix Mendelssohn composed music to accompany performances of Shakespeare’s play at the Prussian court.
“