
Uncertainty is often a deal breaker.
It can be largely blamed for a string of declines in acquisitions announced during the first half of the year in almost every sector, location and size compared with the same period in 2015. Many executives were hesitant to pull the trigger.
About $1.6 trillion worth of deals were announced this year through Thursday, according to data compiled by Thomson Reuters. That represented a 19 percent slump from the first half of the year in 2015 and a slight increase from the same period in 2014. The number of deals — 21,086 — represented an almost 5 percent decline, indicating that the transactions are smaller.
Mergers and acquisitions bankers and lawyers have attributed the slowdown to 
Then, of course, there is the multitude of unknowns surrounding Britain’s unexpected vote to leave the European Union.
“Brexit is just the cherry on top,” Kai Liekefett, a partner in the mergers and acquisitions group at Vinson & Elkins, said in a phone interview. “A very bitter cherry.”
Britain’s referendum caught many mergers and acquisitions professionals by surprise. A survey by Intralinks published on June 17 showed that 80 percent of deal makers did not believe Britain would leave the E.U. About two-thirds of those surveyed believed that Britain’s departure would have a negative impact on merger activity throughout Europe.
Since the vote on June 23, deal makers have been scrambling to determine what it means for clients. So far only a few deals, such as Deutsche Börse’s acquisition of the London Stock Exchange, appear to be on thin ice after the vote.
Some bankers in the United States have decided to work through the Fourth of July holiday weekend to figure it out.
Others have extrapolated what Brexit might indicate about the election in the United States in November. Historically, elections have influenced executives’ willingness to do larger deals because of the turnover expected among regulators who oversee corporate matters and those who handle antitrust concerns.
“The Brexit vote has brought the notion of what is this global populist moment going to do to the global economy,” said Paul Stefanick, head of Americas corporate and investment banking at Deutsche Bank. “People are getting more risk-averse until they see the outcome of the election.”
That is not to say deal making will be completely dormant. On Thursday, Lionsgate, the movie studio behind “The Hunger Games,” agreed to buy Starz, the premium cable channel, for about $4.4 billion. Just a few weeks ago, Microsoft agreed to acquire LinkedIn for $26.2 billion. About six weeks earlier, Abbott signed a deal with St. Jude Medical for $25 billion to enhance its offerings for medical devices. Bankers and lawyers say other deals are in the works, but many do not expect them to reach the level of the activity seen in 2015.
To be fair, 2015 was a record year in terms of global deal volume, with about $4.7 trillion worth of deals signed. Some of those have since fallen apart.
After the Treasury Department introduced new tax rules, Pfizer abandoned its $152 billion merger with Allergan. Buyers’ remorse led to the termination of Energy Transfer Equity and Williams Companies’ $38 billion combination, after a judge ruled that Energy Transfer could get out. Antitrust concerns caused the breakup of Baker Hughes’ $35 billion proposed combination with fellow oil-field services company Halliburton. Those concerns also thwarted the $6.3 billion Staples-Office Depot deal.
Ron Sargent, the chief executive of Staples, said in May that he was stepping down, a signal to other executives that undergoing tricky deals could cost them their jobs.
“Confidence is shattered in the executive level,” said Mario Ponce, co-head of Simpson, Thacher & Bartlett’s mergers and acquisitions practice. “People are pausing and being very thoughtful and hunkering down.”