
When 
Philip May, Britain’s new first gentleman, has rarely been a man for the limelight. But as a wealthy financier suddenly thrust onto one of the world’s biggest stages, he is quickly confronting the scrutiny that accompanies the modern political power couple.
The news had barely broken that Ms. May was taking office when headlines questioning a possible conflict of interest blared in the news media.
“Theresa May’s husband is a senior executive at a $1.4 trillion investment fund that profits from tax-avoiding companies,” 
And his ties to the world of finance are bound to invite close inspection, as Ms. May delves into the negotiations over 
For now, the optics of the criticism appear to outweigh the substance.
Mr. May, a sunny man with a penchant for tailored pinstripe suits and brogues, does not run a rabble-rousing hedge fund that takes major stakes in companies and aggressively demands change from management. His employer is not a big bank that was bailed out by the government. He is not a high-flying, fast-moving trader.
The new first man of Britain works at a low-key American investment firm as a client-relationship manager. He no longer invests money, but acts as a go-between with the firm’s clients.
Founded in 1931, the firm, 
That does not mean Mr. May’s work will not create potential conflicts — real or perceived — for the couple to navigate. Capital Group, which in the United States runs more than 40 funds selling under the brand name American Funds, is a top owner of shares in dozens of major multinationals like Microsoft, General Electric, JPMorgan Chase, Coca-Cola and Boeing. And the firm invests in Starbucks and Amazon, two companies Ms. May 
Conjugal scrutiny is certainly to be expected, especially when there is the appearance of possible conflict.
When 
Former President Bill Clinton has invited 
So far, the handful of dirt thrown at Mr. May has not stuck. The most damning comment to emerge in British news media from colleagues about Mr. May is that he is a fairly “head-down” type of guy, a politically quiet man who is happy to take a back seat.
If anything, he has invited comparisons to Sir Denis Thatcher, the low-key husband of Margaret Thatcher, Britain’s first female prime minister. Mr. Thatcher played a supporting role to the Iron Lady’s career in the spotlight, and famously stated that a partner should “always be present, never there.” Mrs. Thatcher said that being prime minister had been a lonely job, but “with Denis there, I was never alone.”
Mr. May has stuck with his wife through rough times, including the loss of her parents soon after they were married. Ever since the pair met at Oxford, at a Conservative Party disco, he has quietly supported her as they both rose early in careers in the financial world.
He was by her side as Ms. May pivoted into British politics 13 years ago, first getting elected to Parliament and eventually serving for six years in the difficult cabinet post of home secretary, overseeing the nation’s domestic security and immigration agencies. She has described him as her “rock.”
Mr. May earned a reputation as an astute stock picker in the late 1990s when he ran pension funds for Prudential Portfolio Managers. He eventually moved to Capital Group in 2005, where he veered away from the money managing business and put his skills as a people person to use managing client relationships.
As the new first gentleman, Mr. May will be scrutinized as never before, whether for his financial ventures or his sartorial choices. He can only hope the type of coverage likely to emerge in the British news media will be more along the lines of a headline that recently appeared Wednesday in the newspaper Metro right after Ms. May took office.
“Theresa May’s husband steals the show in sexy navy suit as he starts new life as First Man,” the headline read.
“Oh,” the article continued. “And let’s not forget those shoes.”