
The Supreme Court today 
In a 5-3 decision, the justices found that the law was an “undue burden” on a woman’s right to terminate her pregnancy.
The Supreme Court made it harder to prosecute public officials for corruption, in a unanimous ruling today 
The German chancellor is 
One survey has Hillary Clinton with a double-digit lead, 51 percent to 39 percent, but 
Mrs. Clinton campaigns today in Ohio 
Some of those weapons are believed to have been used last year to kill two Americans and three others.
President Obama has 
A new survey shows that 
A report released today by the International Energy Agency says 
In addition, charcoal — which is cheaper than gas or electricity — has become one of the greatest 
Our investigation finds that these firms have increasingly 
Belgium, France and Germany advanced 
President Obama hosts the Minnesota Lynx, the W.N.B.A. champions, today. 
This Chinese cold boiled 
“In the second century of the Christian Era, the empire of Rome comprehended the fairest part of the earth, and the most civilized portion of mankind.”
That’s the opening sentence of a book that might not be on your summer reading list: “
It took the English historian Edward Gibbon more than a decade of work to get to the final sentence, which he penned on this night in 1787.
He was first inspired to write the book while in Rome in 1764, he said, “as I sat musing amidst the ruins of the Capitol, while the barefooted friars were singing vespers in the Temple of Jupiter.”
The first volume arrived in 1776, an instant best seller warning that all empires must someday fall, just as the American colonies declared independence from the British crown.
The book starts in the second century and covers the end of Rome’s Western empire in volumes two and three, taking readers to about the fifth century. Nearly a millennium is compressed into the second half, ending with the fall of Constantinople in 1453.
The work, which uses only primary documents, is considered by many to be the greatest English-language work of historical research. It contains 1.5 million words and 8,000 footnotes.
After the sixth volume’s completion, 