
CLACTON, England — It wasn’t supposed to be like this. The original plan of Prime Minister David Cameron was to call a referendum on Britain’s membership in the European Union, renegotiate new terms with the powers that be in Brussels and then use the machinery of government to persuade people to vote to remain.
A source in Downing Street tells me that Mr. Cameron’s circle was expecting the Remain campaign to be comfortably ahead by now. Yet, little more than a week before the referendum, the polls show that the two camps are neck and neck. Although the Leave campaign — of which I am a founding member — is still the underdog, there is a real chance that Britain will vote for independence from the European Union on June 23.
What is going on? There is an honorable, decent case for Britain to stay in the union. The problem for the Remain camp is that no one has been making it.
Throughout the campaign, the Remainers have highlighted “experts” from bodies like the International Monetary Fund, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and the Bank of England, which all think that Britain should stay. They talk of being “shut out” of the room where decisions are made in Brussels.
These warnings sound like the neuroses of career politicians, not the concerns of the public, who see things very differently. Ordinary voters are weighing what is best for National Health Service hospitals and public services. By making the case from a political elite’s perspective, the Remain campaign has alienated, even antagonized, voters.
Instead of advancing arguments, Remainers have resorted to a campaign of exaggeration and intimidation. Vote to leave, they suggest, and food prices will rise. Farming will fold, science will suffer, financiers will flee. Trade will tumble, there will be a global recession. And World War III, apparently.
Far from persuading people, these confected claims come across as hectoring and supercilious. The TV debates reflect this. The more audiences tune in and hear these threats, the more they come to think that the alternative — of democratic self-government — is not so bad, after all. The shift visible in audiences during these debates is a microcosm of what is happening nationwide.
The Leave side, which just months ago was dismissed as hopelessly divided, has put together an extraordinarily effective campaign based on taking back democratic control from unelected, unaccountable bureaucrats in Brussels. We argue that every week, Britain 
We also propose taking back control of Britain’s borders. Instead of an automatic right to settle in Britain for some 500 million European Union citizens, we are proposing an Australian-style, points-based immigration system that assesses people on the skills they bring, not the passport they hold. Mr. Cameron’s rebuttal, which said this would harm the economy, fell flat when it was pointed out that Australia is enjoying its 
The Leave side benefits from the Remainers’ collaboration with various vested interests — 
The success of the Leave campaign lies with its sunny optimism. No one better personifies this morning-in-Britain outlook than the member of Parliament and former mayor of London Boris Johnson. Euroskeptics were supposed to be out-of-date, reactionary nativists. Instead, with our proposal for an immigration system that ends discrimination against non-Europeans and our insistence on more global trade, we are the forward-looking internationalists.
It is the Remain team that has ended up looking reactionary. The European Commission, which the Remainers defend, is the only European Union body that can propose laws, and it is unelected — an arrangement George III might have admired.
The Remain campaign promotes an obsolete European project, a throwback to the 1950s when big regional trade blocs looked like the future, and size and scale seemed paramount in economics. In a world of globalized trade and localized power, the European Union — the world’s only declining trading group — is being left behind. All its supporters can muster in its defense is the fear of change.
When President Obama came to London recently, he was warmly received. He is, without question, one of the most popular American presidents on this side of the Atlantic in living memory. But his intervention in the referendum debate, calling on Britain to vote to stay in the union, had the opposite effect to what was intended: In the days following his visit, there 
As much as Mr. Obama is respected here, the British people know that no American president, Democrat or Republican, would ever agree to the United States’ joining a political union that made Congress subservient to a Pan-American parliament in Bogota, or the Supreme Court secondary to a judiciary in Haiti. So why should we tolerate the equivalent?
There is a way to go in this campaign, but America should prepare itself for the possibility that Britain could vote to leave the European Union. If we Britons do so, far from retreating into isolationism, we will be looking for greater links with the rest of the world and even closer ties with our oldest allies.
Let’s recognize this referendum for what it is. We’re voting for reclaiming the principles of democratic self-determination on which the United States was founded. America celebrates its independence on July 4. In years to come, Britons may celebrate ours on June 23.