
BRUSSELS — The eurozone economy continues its 
With growth slowing and the region facing a wide array of challenges — from the long-running 
Here are some highlights from the commission’s latest forecast:
“The recovery in the euro area remains uneven, both between member states and between the weakest and the strongest in society. That is unacceptable and requires determined action from governments, both individually and collectively.”
Output in the eurozone, the 19-country currency union, is 
On Tuesday, the commission lowered its growth estimates for the euro area for this year and next. Gross domestic product is expected to advance 1.6 percent in 2016 and 1.8 percent next year, compared with a 
“Following stronger-than-expected public finances in 2015 and the additional fiscal package currently finalized by the authorities, the general government balance is expected to improve further.”
There have been signs that the Greek economy has bottomed out, and the commission’s assessment is comparatively rosier for the country. In February, the commission forecast that Greece’s economy would shrink 0.7 percent this year and grow 2.7 percent in 2017. On Tuesday, it predicted the decline this year would be a less-severe 0.3 percent, and it held firm to its forecast for 2017.
Despite those forecasts, there are still challenges. Political instability has made it difficult for Greece’s left-wing government to carry out changes needed to improve the climate for business, and there is also the threat that Athens could default on its debts this summer unless it receives more bailout aid. For many Greeks, the economic situation remains dire. Output has fallen by more than a quarter since 2010, around 25 percent of the work force is unemployed, and about half of all bank loans are in default.
“The commission made all its effort to contribute to solutions that hopefully will lead to the United Kingdom remaining in the European Union.”
A slew of reports have warned that 
In February, the commission predicted that Britain would grow 2.1 percent in 2016, and the same amount next year. Its latest forecasts, however, are sharply lower, with the country now expected to grow only 1.8 percent this year, and 1.9 percent in 2017.
“Public spending on asylum seekers implies a lower budget balance for the general government, which will support growth. The current account surplus is expected to remain very high.”
A slowdown in emerging markets has left Germany, the eurozone’s biggest economy, looking vulnerable. If German manufacturers remain wary and confidence in the economy remains weak, companies may cut back on investment or hiring, pushing growth closer to the lackluster eurozone average of about 1 percent. On Tuesday, the commission cut its forecasts this year and next for Germany by 0.2 of a percentage point, predicting advancement of 1.6 percent in both years.
Germany also has significant savings that could be invested in infrastructure projects, providing stimulus to the domestic and wider European economy. But Germany has been reluctant to countenance such spending, and the country’s leaders have been unwilling to allow other European states to run larger deficits. Some economists say that has exacerbated the painful effects of austerity policies enacted over the past six years across the region.
“We note a positive impact, which has been confirmed.”
In September, the commission’s president, Jean-Claude Juncker, said migration could be an antidote to looming labor woes in Europe, where an aging population threatens economic growth. 