
LONDON — The governing body of Britain’s opposition Labour Party agreed on Tuesday to schedule a new election for its leadership, and ruled that Jeremy Corbyn, who faced a revolt from fellow Labour lawmakers, would be assured of a place on the ballot.
Mr. Corbyn had been under pressure to step aside, forcing Labour’s governing body, the 
“The N.E.C. has agreed that as the incumbent leader Jeremy Corbyn will go forward onto the ballot without requiring nominations from the Parliamentary Labour Party and the European Parliamentary Labour Party,” Neil Fleming, a Labour spokesman, said in a statement.
The prospect that Mr. Corbyn’s name would appear on the ballot was very much in question, given the hostility toward him from the party’s bloc in Parliament.
But in a secret ballot and after hours of talks, the executive committee voted 18-to-14 to allow Mr. Corbyn to stand for election.
The committee said a date for the election would be announced on Thursday.
According to the party, 370,658 Britons are registered Labour voters. More than 100,000 have registered in the past year, but only those who registered before Jan. 12, 2016, will be allowed to vote for leader in the upcoming ballot, according to a party statement.
The discord in the party has been one of the many aftershocks of the June 23 referendum, in which Britons voted to leave the European Union.
Mr. Corbyn supported British membership in the bloc of 28 nations, and, by his estimation, about three-quarters of Labour Party supporters voted to remain. (The decision to leave was approved by 52 percent, with 48 percent voting to remain.)
But Mr. Corbyn’s critics said his campaigning was halfhearted, lackluster and ineffective; shortly before the referendum, he estimated his enthusiasm for remaining in the European Union at “
Angela Eagle, a Labour lawmaker representing a district in northwest England, 
“These are dark times for Labour, and they are dangerous times for our country,” Ms. Eagle said. “A referendum to settle an argument in the Conservative Party has resulted in the country being torn apart: our economy damaged, our society hurt.”
On Twitter, she wrote she was glad the committee had reached a decision. “I welcome the contest ahead. And I am determined to win it,” Ms. Eagle said.
Reflecting the heightened tensions in the Labour Party, Ms. Eagle’s office said in a statement on Tuesday that a brick had been thrown through the window of her constituency office in Wallasey, near Liverpool, overnight or in the morning.
An Eagle campaign meeting at a hotel in Luton, about 30 miles northwest of London, was relocated in response to death threats, and the police were informed, the statement said. Mr. Corbyn later condemned the attacks, calling on all Labour Party members to “treat each other with respect and dignity, even when there is disagreement.”
Ms. Eagle’s announcement on Monday was overshadowed by the news from the governing Conservative Party: Andrea Leadsom, one of two finalists to succeed David Cameron as the party’s leader, abruptly dropped out of the race, clearing the way for Theresa May, the home secretary, to 
Mr. Cameron intends to formally resign on Wednesday after a regular session of prime minister’s questions, and Queen Elizabeth II is expected to formally ask Ms. May on Wednesday afternoon to form a government.
A moving van arrived at No. 10 Downing Street on Tuesday as Mr. Cameron, in office since 2010, and his family prepared to move out, leaving behind a cat, Larry, which officials said belongs to the Civil Service.
Mr. Corbyn was 
A 
Though Mr. Corbyn has strong grass-roots support among members of the party, he has never had the full support of lawmakers in the party.
Shortly after the referendum, most of the shadow cabinet — the opposition leadership team — resigned in protest, and Mr. Corbyn 
Mr. Corbyn has refused to resign, saying that he was democratically elected by the party’s members, and vowed to run again if a new leadership contest were called.