
You know, I once wrote a book about Texas in which I pooh-poohed the whole secession thing. At the time, a poll had 18 percent of the citizenry favoring the idea. I pointed out disparagingly that that was about the same as the proportion of Republicans who said it might be a good idea to nominate Donald Trump for president.
Ha. Ha.
Donald Trump was thrilled with the Brexit decision, which he feels was an insurgent movement similar to the one that supports him in America. “People want to take their country back. They want to have independence in a sense,” he said at a press conference in Scotland (which actually overwhelmingly voted Remain). “So I think you’re going to have this happen more and more. I really believe that, and I think that it’s happening in the United States. It’s happening by the fact that I’ve done so well in the polls.”
What do you make of it? Is Brexit an expression of British Trumpism?
The British get-out leaders are now spending all their time retracting the promises they made about the wonderful benefits of exiting. And I’m imagining a victorious Trump explaining how the Mexican wall was just a figure of speech.
But how do you think this is all going to work out — terrible international economic disaster or life goes on as usual except for the poor suckers in Britain who thought their E.U. subsidies were going to magically continue without the E.U.?
The long-term effects are much less clear. Tony Blair had a 
Judging by the early commentary, many are eager to blame the Leave result on reactionary, anti-immigrant bigotry. But I think it’s important for Americans to remember that there were also a lot of good people with no anti-immigrant sentiment whatsoever who favored Leave — like Michael Gove, an M.P. who is a rising star in the Conservative Party. It wasn’t foreigners they resented, but the stultifying socialist mediocrity of Brussels and the dreaded inevitability of bailing out Greece and others. The referendum seemed to reflect widespread dissatisfaction with European governance, not some simple xenophobia.
But Krugman has a point about the problems of the euro, which took monetary policy away from countries so they couldn’t devalue their currencies after living ruinously beyond their means. Britain managed to keep the British pound, of course, but still feels the increasing burden of arcane E.U. rules and regulations.
As to the political effects here in the States, I sort of doubt this will help or hurt Trump. As a rule, foreign events capture the American imagination for about nine seconds. It gave Trump a great opportunity to promote that golf course, though.
Before we leave this topic, tell me how you would have voted if you were British.
All in all, I found the whole thing bland in the extreme. Sort of a vague wish list. What say you?
Ryan and the Republican committee chairs unveiled their health plan at A.E.I., actually. It focuses a lot on the fiscal sustainability of entitlements and trying to make coverage more portable — a good start on laying out what they could do if Republicans ever got control of the White House. More to the point, it belies the cliché that conservatives have no ideas and only criticize Obama and his fellow Democrats.
Also, it’s too general to be meaningful. It’s hard to argue with mush. You need more specifics — stuff like “eliminating the death tax.” Now that’s a specific statement which I would be happy to excoriate. My kind of Republican platform.
Before we close on a note of agreement, one last question: What’s on the top of your summer reading list?