
Many of the same economic grievances and anxieties that have surfaced in the American electorate this year appear to have played an important role in Britain’s decision on Thursday to leave the European Union.
In large numbers, the “leave” supporters were expressing anger at never having reaped the promised rewards of globalization, even as those at the top have prospered. The divide between losers and winners was underscored by the fact that voters in economically stressed parts of the country voted to leave, while those in London, the racing heart of global capitalism, voted to remain.
Similar sentiments have dominated the presidential race in the United States. Bernie Sanders has campaigned against income inequality and a financial system that drains rather than fosters a middle class. Hillary Clinton prefaces her policy agenda with the assertion that the deck has been stacked against ordinary Americans. Donald Trump’s supporters are aggrieved over low pay and the demise of manufacturing, which Mr. Trump is only too happy to link to trade and immigration.
But overplaying the similarities between public opinion in the two countries risks drawing the wrong lessons from the British vote. One of the most striking features of Brexit is that young people voted overwhelmingly to remain in the European Union. Among voters age 24 and younger, 75 percent voted to stay, 
Theirs was a vote not for revolution, but for the status quo; not for reversing the commitment to the free flow of goods, capital and labor, but for harnessing it to a better future. While it is safe to assume that many were acutely aware of the shortcomings of global capitalism, their vote was an affirmation that the hallmarks of union — integration, mobility and diversity — are worth saving and that economic dislocations are problems to be fixed.
As for older pensioners, they have less to lose from globalization and yet most of them voted to leave, as did the working class, which has been harmed by outsourcing and factory relocations, but whose problems cannot be solved by leaving the union. That suggests that among many “leave” voters, fear and resentment of immigration outweighed economic anxiety as a decisive factor. This also seems true among many of Mr. Trump’s supporters.
The lesson for American voters is to see their economic problems clearly, lest they be manipulated into voting against their own and their nation’s interests.