
LONDON — With just days remaining before the referendum on European Union membership, two anxieties are colliding: the fear of job losses if Britain leaves and the fear of high immigration if it remains. News headlines reflect a country that is not at ease with itself, trapped between what a former American secretary of state, Dean Acheson, 
Acheson argued that Britain’s paths to influence in the world, including its special relationship with the United States, were “played out.” Just one avenue remained: positive engagement with Europe. The only obstacle was British recalcitrance.
So it appears today, even after more than 40 years of European Union membership. The “Leave” campaign tries to summon a vision of Britain at its patriotic best when it stands alone, a race apart, an island unto itself and fiercely independent of Europe. The pro-European “Remain” camp would like to talk of a Britain that is outward-looking and at the heart of Europe.
But ministers of the Conservative government, under pressure from the euroskeptics within their party’s ranks, find it difficult to break out of negative terrain. For most of the campaign, they have defended European membership merely as the lesser of two evils. At times, this bitter and bad-tempered referendum resembles a battle between those who want us half out of Europe and those who want us fully out.
It is not too late to make the positive case for Britain’s future in Europe. The 
Traditional patriotism and modern realities need not be at odds. In an interdependent world, each country must strike a balance between the autonomy it desires and the cooperation it needs. In the European Union, Britain can play a constructive role without either subjugating its identity to a European superstate or lurching backward into a “Little England” mind-set. The way we can reconcile the competing forces of memory, destiny and reality is by leading Europe’s next stage of development.
America rightly claims to be an exceptional country. So, too, is Britain. We honor British exceptionalism, show national pride and confound the euroskeptic message when we put ourselves in the vanguard of charting Europe’s future. And the world benefits from a Britain unafraid to lead.
And Europe is in need of direction. Speaking in Strasbourg, in 2014, Pope Francis 
A British-inspired agenda can help reinvigorate this Continental soul and promote the union that the international community needs: a global Europe no longer self-absorbed and inward-looking, but focused on building powerful and productive diplomatic and trading relationships throughout the world.
Consider the problem of terrorism. The multinational operations of the Islamic State can be countered only by cross-border security cooperation. Britain is home to one of the world’s most respected intelligence agencies, which makes it well placed to lead a more professional pan-European effort on intelligence-sharing and surveillance.
Our history of engagement with the Middle East and Africa also positions Britain to shape a European-led modern version of the Marshall Plan that would combine diplomacy, aid and economic incentives to address the causes of instability in those regions. And as Europe faces its largest humanitarian crisis since 1945 — tens of millions of migrants and refugees — Britain must help the union provide its neighbors with new educational, economic and entrepreneurial opportunities. A fast-growing population of about 200 million young people in the Middle East and North Africa must have a future defined not by the choice between tyranny and terrorism, but by opportunity and hope.
With British encouragement, Europe can lead the world in confronting climate change. The Continent needs to reduce its energy dependence on Russia, which is subsidizing oppression near the union’s eastern border. A reformed European energy market, recalling the union’s postwar origins as a coal and steel community, could integrate abundant British wind and wave power into a Continental low-carbon energy grid.
Eight years after the start of the financial crisis, Europe’s economy is still stuck in low gear, with an average of 
Europe can be an engine of global growth again if we open its digital, information technology and service industries to cross-Continental competition, unite the union’s brightest scientific and academic minds to create the world’s largest research hub, and conclude a better, more transparent trade deal with the United States. Britain should also be a key player in demonstrating that such powerful economic cooperation is about creating more than merely a competitive marketplace, but a community underpinned by social rights and workplace standards.
A Britain that accomplishes these things will not make any of us less British as a result. The high tide of Europe’s federalist ambitions is receding. In its place is a more acceptable model of decision making shared by its 28 national governments. The Continent’s future lies not in a United States of Europe, but in a United Europe of States.
At Independence Hall in Philadelphia on July 4, 1962, President John F. Kennedy called for a “declaration of interdependence” with Europe, in which the United States was pledged as a partner, toward “a more perfect union.” And he urged Britain to champion “a united Europe” in order to promote the rule of law, freedom, peace and prosperity around the world.
He was right then, and his words live on. For Britain in its post-imperial era, engagement is our oxygen, cooperation our imperative and leadership our destiny. If Britons vote to lead in Europe, not leave it, on June 23, they will show that Britain is anything but “played out.”