
BIRSTALL, England — The police in Britain on Saturday charged a 52-year-old man with 
In a statement issued early Saturday, Detective Superintendent Nick Wallen of the West Yorkshire Police said that officers had charged a man with murder and several other offenses, including grievous bodily harm and possession of a firearm.
The suspect, Thomas Mair, of Birstall, a town in West Yorkshire county, is expected to make an initial court appearance at Westminster Magistrates’ Court in London on Saturday.
Once charges have been made, British media law prevents any reporting about the case that might prejudice a trial.
The shooting and stabbing death of Ms.
Ms. Cox was killed early Thursday afternoon after getting out of her car outside the public library in Birstall where she had been scheduled to hold a meeting with constituents, the police said on Friday in their most detailed description of the attack. Some media accounts, citing witnesses, said on Thursday that Ms. Cox had been coming out of the library after the meeting when she was attacked.
Issues of 
Ms. Cox’s death was the first killing of a sitting member of Parliament since 1990. Her death brought Prime Minister David Cameron, a Conservative, and the Labour leader, Jeremy Corbyn, together to the site of the killing to honor her.
Both sides in the European Union debate suspended campaigning on Thursday out of respect for Ms. Cox, though 
Mr. Corbyn called Ms. Cox’s killing “an attack on democracy,” blaming “the well of hatred.”
Kathryn Pinnock, a Liberal Democrat councilor from Birstall who was appointed to the House of Lords in 2014, said she was scheduled to campaign with Ms. Cox on Thursday afternoon for Britain to remain in the European Union.
There has been growing concern about threats British lawmakers have received in the line of their work, and Ms. Pinnock said Ms. Cox had mentioned receiving some “very unpleasant” messages on social media.
The West Yorkshire police said Ms. Cox had gotten two threats in the past, including “one of a sexual nature” at her offices in London. The Metropolitan Police, who protect the capital, said Ms. Cox had alerted them in March to “malicious communication” by a man, whom officers detained and released with a warning. That man was not the murder suspect, the police said.
Ms. Cox, who would have turned 42 on Wednesday, was elected to Parliament for the district of Batley and Spen in May 2015. In just over a year, she had already established a strong reputation, 
Hundreds of people 