
PARIS — When the Berlin Wall fell, I was in high school. When the planes hit the 
Still, the news stung. For me and others of my generation, this vote was about more than Britain’s relationship with Europe. It signaled the definitive end of the era of transnational optimism in which I came of age: the ’90s. Back then, we believed that interconnectedness was a strength. People wanted to study human rights law. Nationalism was out of fashion — at least in Western Europe — and weaponized Twitter didn’t yet exist to galvanize political change. (Or rather, to take down institutions, not build them.)
In June 2011 
For years to come, I covered countless middle-of-the-night votes in which the 
Regular people didn’t understand what was going on, and neither did many European leaders, cocooned in their provincialisms. Sometimes there was chatter that no, Greece wouldn’t get kicked out of the euro, but that maybe one day Germany, Europe’s largest economy, would leave. Never mind how Germany had grown rich because its banks had lent Southern Europe money to buy German goods, a fact that didn’t fit into the “lazy Greeks” narrative of the German tabloid news media.
This week, it wasn’t Greece that was kicked out. It was Britain that 
The European Union hasn’t done a good job of explaining its purpose — it’s too opaque, too bureaucratic, too confusing — and its slow handling of the debt crisis, especially in Greece, where it acted fast so French and German banks could cut their losses, but left Greece asphyxiated, had devastating consequences for all. Decisions made for short-term financial stability have led to long-term political instability.
I’m struck by how the critiques of Europe from the right and left wind up converging. The 
Still, the right appeals to nationalism and the left does not. The right sells a nostalgic version of national identity that resonates viscerally but doesn’t reflect reality, especially not for young people born into a Europe of Erasmus scholarships that let them study across borders, and EasyJet, which lets them travel around on the cheap.
These critiques of Europe from the left and right aren’t really ideological in the way that the 20th-century battles between communists and fascists were. Instead, voters have the sense that abstract economic forces are determining their fates, that their countries have given up part of their economic sovereignty to Europe — but that Europe, a vague construct, has not assumed that power and can’t act on it. Europe hovers in a kind of purgatory of semisovereignty. In this confusion, nationalists thrive.
It’s all terribly confusing: The idea of a united Europe was to allow citizens to prosper. When the economy was booming, countries wanted immigration. In recent years, the economic crisis hasn’t allowed citizens in many parts of Europe to prosper. Does this mean that a united Europe is to blame, or that global economic factors are? Or does the fault lie with entrenched local economic realities, like national labor contracts, which exist for older workers but are often an impossible dream 
This week I reread one of the most prescient texts on the European Union: the historian Tony Judt’s 1996 essay “
“Just as an obsession with ‘growth’ has left a moral vacuum at the heart of some modern nations, so the abstract, materialist quality of the idea of Europe is proving insufficient to legitimate its own institutions and retain popular confidence,” wrote Mr. Judt, who 
“Since 1989 there has been a return of memory and with it, and benefiting from it, a revival of the national units that framed and shaped that memory and gave meaning to the collective past,” he wrote.
When I was on assignment in Russia last year, where the government of President Vladimir V. Putin has been playing up the country’s past military glory in television programs, films and 
This seems accurate for Russia and for Eastern Europe, where governing parties play the nationalist card because it’s one of the few cards they can play — since they certainly can’t play the economic card, the bright-future card. The vote in Britain on Thursday was also a vote for revisionist history, for a vision of Britain for the British — of 
Who inherits England? It’s a question that has obsessed British novelists for decades. And who inherits Europe? Today in Europe the past is equally unpredictable, and the path ahead looks very uncertain.