
LONDON — Donald Tusk, the president of the European Council, castigated Boris Johnson on Tuesday for “absurd arguments” and “political amnesia” after the former London mayor, a leader of the campaign against 
In an 
“Napoleon, Hitler, various people tried this out, and it ends tragically,” he said. “The E.U. is an attempt to do this by different methods.”
Britain will hold a referendum on Thursday on whether to leave the European Union, a decision nicknamed “Brexit.”
The comments, just weeks before Britain holds a 
Conservative and Labour supporters of British membership in the bloc criticized the remarks as incendiary and offensive, even as some campaigning for Britain’s exit jumped to Mr. Johnson’s defense.
Adding his voice to the criticism, Mr. Tusk, a former prime minister of Poland, said he could not remain silent as the European Union, the world’s biggest trading bloc, was compared to the former dictator.
Emphasizing that he did not wish to lecture and that it was up to voters in Britain to decide for themselves, Mr. Tusk said at a news conference in Copenhagen that he nevertheless felt compelled to speak out.
“When I hear the E.U. being compared to the plans and projects of Adolf Hitler, I cannot remain silent,” he said. “Such absurd arguments should be completely ignored if they had not been formulated by one of the most influential politicians in the ruling party.”
transcript
ALFRETON, DERBYSHIRE, ENGLAND, UNITED KINGDOM (MAY 16, 2016) (UK POOL - ACCESS ALL)
(SOUNDBITE) (English) FORMER MAYOR OF LONDON, BORIS JOHNSON, SAYING:
“We had it under the Roman Empire - they did it very often with extreme force. The EU is a different proposition - but it fundamentally comes from that idea that you can unify Europe. My problem with that is, it hasn’t been done by consent.”
//
HECKLER FROM AUDIENCE OFF CAMERA INTERUPTS:
“Adolf Hitler was not talking about unifying Europe though - he was talking about conquering Europe and wiping out half of its population. It’s not the same thing as unifying Europe, is it?”
//
(SOUNDBITE) (English) FORMER MAYOR OF LONDON, BORIS JOHNSON, SAYING:
“As I say - you persist in trying to drag the subject back to previous attempts to unify Europe. What I’m talking about is what is going on now and it is deeply, anti-democratic.”
“Boris Johnson crossed the boundaries of rational discourse, demonstrating political amnesia,” he continued, adding that, while Mr. Johnson’s view may be shared by many Europeans, there was no excuse for what he called a “dangerous blackout.”
The comments from Mr. Johnson and Mr. Tusk laid bare one of the central fissures in the debate over whether Britain should remain in the European Union.
While critics of the European Union like Mr. Johnson say they view the bloc as a reckless superstate that is undermining Britain’s influence and sovereignty, supporters of membership view it as an essential anchor that has brought peace and stability to Europe after decades of conflict and war.
After the interview, the Labour official who speaks for the party on foreign affairs, Hilary Benn, said those who advocate a British exit from the bloc, often referred to as “
“After the horror of the Second World War, the E.U. helped to bring an end to centuries of conflict in Europe,” he said. “For 
Mr. Johnson, who remains a member of Parliament, has stood by his comments, which have also drawn support.
Jacob Rees-Mogg, a Conservative lawmaker who supports a British exit, was quoted by the BBC as saying that Mr. Johnson’s remarks were “absolutely true.”
While Mr. Johnson has said that Hitler and Napoleon wanted to create a single European power using force, he said, “the E.U. is trying to do it by stealth.”