
LONDON — Citing cross-border collaboration and European Union funding for the arts, nearly 300 British actors, musicians and writers have urged Britons to vote to stay in the European Union in the 
Writing 
The letter, signed by stars including Keira Knightley, Patrick Stewart, Benedict Cumberbatch, Jude Law and Helena Bonham Carter, continued, “Leaving Europe would be a leap into the unknown for millions of people across the U.K. who work in the creative industries, and for the millions more at home and abroad who benefit from the growth and vibrancy of Britain’s cultural sector.”
The Oscar-winning director Danny Boyle and the British poet laureate Carol Ann Duffy added their names, as did the authors Hilary Mantel, Philip Pullman and John le Carré.
The letter was immediately described as an intervention by “the luvvies,” a satirical term borrowed from Private Eye magazine to describe Britain’s self-enamored stars. The Guardian columnist Simon Jenkins 
Britain will hold a referendum on Thursday on whether to leave the European Union, a decision nicknamed “Brexit.”
But there is serious money at stake. John Sorrell, the chairman of the Creative Industries Federation, said, “We benefit from a vast network of talented people, companies and institutions across Europe.”
Mr. Sorrell said creative industries had contributed 84 billion pounds, or about $122 billion, to the British economy. Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain, who supports staying in the bloc, has promoted the findings of a survey by the Creative Industries Federation showing that 96 percent of its members wanted to remain in Europe.
John Kampfner, the chief executive of the federation, said that Brussels had provided seed funding to films like “Slumdog Millionaire,” “The Iron Lady” and “The King’s Speech.”
Many cross-border collaborations to fund films and television programs are made easier by membership in the single market of the European Union, and it is easier for British artists to work in Europe and vice versa.
Political interventions by stars are not always welcomed by voters. In last year’s Scottish referendum, the “Harry Potter” author J. K. Rowling met with significant hostility when she came out against Scottish independence and 
Michael Caine, the actor, has come out in favor of Britain’s leaving the union, as has Roger Daltrey of the Who.