
In past decades, when faced with plebiscites on whether to embrace further European integration, voters across the Continent had a habit of slamming on the brakes — though in several instances they later changed their minds.
So Britain’s 
Britain joined the European Economic Community, a forerunner of the European Union, in 1973, during the Conservative government of Prime Minister 
The Labour Party, which took power the next year, submitted the matter to a public vote.
The yes camp won a 
The differences between then and now are striking. At the time, it was the Labour Party that was deeply divided over Europe; the party’s left flank feared that West German fiscal reticence would push down British wages.
The Conservatives, led by 
But the European Economic Community back then was a far more modest endeavor than today’s European Union. And Britain was economically downcast in 1975 — the sick man of Europe, an economic laggard behind West Germany and France — while today it is flourishing relative to other European countries.
The bloc had nine members then, compared with 28 today. While the British news media broadly supported remaining in Europe in 1975, today it is divided and, in many cases, downright hostile.
In February 1992, 12 European nations signed a 
Those aspirations were thrown into disarray four months later, when 
After the Danish government secured the ability to opt out of several aspects of the treaty — including the single currency — a second 
Given France’s role as a founding member of what became the European Union, the Continent was shaken 
Ireland was expected to be the 
Nevertheless, Irish voters 
But voters 
Swedes overwhelmingly 
The 
(Denmark, the other Scandinavian member of the European Union, also kept its own currency, and Finland has been part of the eurozone since its inception in 1999. Iceland and Norway are not members of the European Union.) 
A former president of France, 
But the French decisively 
Just days after the French rejected the European constitution, the Dutch 
The Netherlands 
The 
Yet voters 
The vote shook the government and the business leaders, which had campaigned for the treaty.
But 16 months later, 
Supporters of European integration suffered their most recent blow when Dutch voters 
Coming less than three months before the British referendum on European Union membership, the Dutch vote was a painful reminder of the fragility of popular support for the European Union. The bloc has been buffeted by slowing or zero economic growth, a spiraling 
The Dutch Parliament had already given its assent to a proposed economic deal between Ukraine and the European Union, but critics forced a direct popular vote under a recent law that compels the government to submit a question directly to voters if proponents secure at least 300,000 signatures for an online petition.
The vote was officially nonbinding, but the government had said it would not disregard the results if turnout exceeded 30 percent — a threshold that was narrowly achieved. Negotiations over the accord are continuing.
Britain will hold a referendum on Thursday on whether to leave the European Union, a decision nicknamed “Brexit.”