
LONDON — Until now, Jeremy Corbyn, the leader of Britain’s opposition Labour Party and a longtime critic of the European Union, has said relatively little about the 
But on Thursday, he urged Britons to vote to stay in the union, “warts and all,” describing it as a crucial tool against climate change and tax evasion, and saying there was a “strong socialist case” for remaining.
The intervention is significant because Mr. Corbyn, a left-winger, has won the support of many younger people, including students, who tend to vote in fewer numbers than older citizens.
The ability of those in the pro-European Union camp to rally their sympathizers could prove decisive in the referendum, which is scheduled for June 23.
“Many people are still weighing up how they will vote in this referendum,” Mr. Corbyn said in a speech on Thursday.
“I appeal to everyone, especially young people who will live longest with the consequences, to make sure you are registered to vote,” he added. “And to vote in June. This is about your future.”
Mr. Corbyn’s speech is welcome news for supporters of the “remain” campaign after a torrid period for the main advocate of their cause, Prime Minister David Cameron. His authority has been dented by the recent Panama Papers scandal, which led to his admission that he had 
Though the Labour Party is overwhelmingly in favor of remaining in the European Union — unlike Mr. Cameron’s Conservatives, who are deeply divided on the topic — there had been doubt about whether Mr. Corbyn would be active in the referendum campaign.
Mr. Corbyn had, however, been under internal pressure from Labour lawmakers — most of whom did not support his election as leader, but who had to accept him because of his overwhelming mandate among rank-and-file party members and supporters.
Britain will hold a referendum on Thursday on whether to leave the European Union, a decision nicknamed “Brexit.”
Mr. Corbyn voted against British membership to the European Union’s forerunner, the European Economic Community, in a referendum in 1975.
During more than three decades in Parliament, he has also sided with critics of the European Union in many votes, a fact he referred to in the speech.
“Over the years, I have continued to be critical of many decisions taken by the E.U., and I remain critical of its shortcomings, from its lack of democratic accountability to the institutional pressure to deregulate or privatize public services,” he said.
Nevertheless, Mr. Corbyn argued that it was “perfectly possible to be critical and still be convinced we need to remain a member,” adding that “the European Union has brought investment, jobs and protection for workers, consumers and the environment, and offers the best chance of meeting the challenges we face in the 21st century.”
He continued, “There is a strong socialist case for staying in the European Union, just as there is also a powerful socialist case for reform and progressive change in Europe.”
He also presented the union as a vital mechanism for cooperation in the international battle to “protect social and human rights, tackle climate change and clamp down on tax dodgers.”
“You cannot build a better world unless you engage with the world, build allies and deliver change,” he said. “The E.U., warts and all, has proved itself to be a crucial international framework to do that.”
Mr. Corbyn said that if Britain quit the European Union, workers’ rights that are currently enshrined in European legislation would be vulnerable to attack. “They’d dump rights on equal pay, working time, annual leave, for agency workers, and on maternity pay as fast as they could get away with it,” he said.
Asked about increased migration into Britain, Mr. Corbyn defended the right of workers from other European Union nations to come to the country to live and work — just as Britons can do in other member states. “There is nothing wrong with people migrating to work across the Continent, but there has to be a level playing field on pay and conditions,” he said.
However, John Mills, a prominent Labour supporter of British withdrawal, known as “Brexit,” suggested that Mr. Corbyn had been influenced by the views of the lawmakers with whom he has clashed on many issues.
Mr. Mills told the BBC that there were only so many fronts on which Mr. Corbyn could fight with fellow Labour lawmakers.