
LONDON — During these last days of the seemingly endless election campaign, we are all living with enormous and ever-rising levels of anxiety. The days pass in a fever of worry, with waves of nausea that subside only to return and rob us of our breath. Many people are having difficulty sleeping. Many others wake up in fright, their bodies drenched with the sweat of Trump terrors. What will America look like after Tuesday? What will the world look like?
We track the news cycle obsessively, compulsively, trying to find clues that might allow us to know what we cannot know and will not know until Wednesday. We may not know even then. Will Trump accept defeat? What if the election is contested for weeks, months? What if there is civil disorder, with blood in the streets? The waiting is agony.
We constantly press the refresh button on 
The mood of nausea at the world, a disgust at the entirety of existence, is familiar to those of us who cut our teeth reading existentialist fiction. Novels like Sartre’s 1938 “Nausea” captured a feeling of disgust with the world and disgust with ourselves for going along with a world so seemingly blissfully happy with itself for so long. For Sartre, the dreadful had already happened, with the rise of National Socialism in the early 1930s, and it was a question of learning to face up to our fate. This is the mood that I want to bring into focus by exploring the concept of Brexistentialism.
For I must admit that I’ve become a Brexistentialist of late, thinking back to that evening on June 23 when I watched the entirety — eight hours or more — of the BBC’s live coverage of the referendum on whether Britain would leave the European Union or choose to remain.
I was home in New York. As the coverage began, the pollsters, the experts and the markets seemed confident that the good people of Britain would act rationally and vote to remain. And then, with the news of early results from postindustrial northern cities like Sunderland and Newcastle (which are strikingly similar to cities in upstate New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania), one became slowly and dreadfully aware that something else was taking place, something was shifting before one’s eyes. By the early hours of the morning on June 24 that smug, smiling, awful face of Nigel Farage was declaring a new dawn, and a day of independence for Britain. The supposedly decent, honest, ordinary people of Britain had spoken. The unthinkable had happened.
Will the same thing happen across the Atlantic? No one knows, least of all me. But the parallels are evident and the anxiety is there, the same nameless dread, that the country that you thought you knew is actually something and somewhere else entirely. That one’s country has unraveled morally and spiritually in such a terribly painful, deeply divisive way.
I arrived back here in England a few days ago to see family and friends. It’s clear things have changed. The mood has shifted. Everything is dominated by uncertainty. People like my 24-year-old son and his friends feel their future has been stolen from them.
Don’t get me wrong, England was hardly ever paradise (on the contrary, which is why I left), but there was a certain self-understanding of the country as being tolerant, open and a slightly better example of an integrated, post-colonial society than any of its neighbors, especially its big brother across the Atlantic. Such beliefs now have been shown to be delusional. Everything turns on how one views immigrants or those who don’t appear to belong to the core of some regressive idea of Englishness. It seems to me that all this will happen in much more dramatic form in the United States if the unthinkable happens on Tuesday.
The Brexistentialist dread that we are feeling is not an accident. The world is a chaotic, violent place that seems out of joint, confusing and fake. Our blind, simple-minded faith in the power of social media and the allegedly liberating force of the internet has produced a news cycle that cycles ever more bewilderingly out of control. We are endlessly confused by what is going on and disorientated and disgusted by the flood of data that assails us. The distinctions between fact and fiction, truth and falsehood seem quaint and impossible to parse. Reality has become unreal.
It is this unreal reality that Trump has managed so masterfully — controlling the news cycle, with the media following along limply picking up crumbs from his Twitter feed; constantly changing the message; disorienting the population by pushing them this way and that with endless revelations; dissolving the fragile bonds of trust between citizens; creating a reality where everything is a conspiracy, everything is rigged, nowhere and no one is safe. Fear everyone.
Yet there may, deep in this Brexistential mood, be a silver lining. The feeling of dread that we now have in the face of the news cycle and the prospect of a Trump victory is intended to induce powerlessness in those who would oppose Trump. The lesson of existentialism is that the nausea that we feel is actually the emergence of a genuine, lived sense of our freedom. Anxiety is the motor that drives the engine of freedom and that can take concrete shape in commitment and a vision of collective action in the world. Despite the best and noble efforts of the mass movements like Occupy and Black Lives Matter, it is this vision that is missing at the present time, and that has to be regained.
Recall Albert Camus’s incarnation of Sisyphus, condemned to push a huge rock up a hill for eternity. What interested Camus is the moment when Sisyphus returns to his rock, walking downhill to meet it once again. This is the hour of consciousness for Camus, the moment when Sisyphus is stronger than his rock. The point is not to despair, for that is exactly the reaction that people like Trump want to induce in those who oppose him. The point is to push.