
BRUSSELS — A bereavement. A horrific accident. An emotional spasm. For once, the language coming from the glass and concrete buildings in Brussels is laden not with the dull acronyms of European Union jargon, but with angst.
For many of the Britons who spent years, even decades, working to integrate their nation within Europe, 
Like battlefield survivors, marooned on what feels increasingly like enemy territory, they are coming to terms with a new reality: As British influence recedes here, so, too, do their careers.
They tell tales of colleagues going for coffee when they speak at meetings, or being cut out of email chains. One official said he was treated like a bereaved family member — people avoid you, he said, because they don’t know what to say.
No one will be thrown out immediately; Britain will almost certainly stay in the bloc until 2019. And many will be able to hang on for years. But there are hundreds of Britons, many of whom have brought families to Brussels, who face a choice of whether to stay, with good earnings but limited prospects, or pack their bags.
Some are already leaving, including Richard Howitt, who recently resigned as a Labour member of the European Parliament to head up a nongovernmental organization.
“People in Brussels really do care about the European idea,” he said. “I’m a pro-European. I’m not naïve about it. But I do feel it in my heart, and at that level it does feel like a bereavement.”
Some days earlier, he visited Parliament’s 13th floor to sign a piece of paper, ending his 22 years in the body. “I left the room, called the lift and just put my head against the wall,” he said. “It was an extremely difficult human moment.”
Mr. Howitt, 55, will run an organization dealing with financial transparency. “Thousands of Britons here are suffering the same sense of grief, and also deep worry about what’s going to happen next,” Mr. Howitt added.
To make matters worse, there is little sympathy in Britain for so-called Eurocrats, whose high pay and generous allowances have long attracted envy. (Its image as a gravy train is one of the European Union’s weaknesses.)
There are 73 British lawmakers in the bloc’s Parliament, but most of the Britons here work as officials in European Union institutions and are not free to speak openly.
None of them are going to starve. And it seems as though many will be able to stay on. After the referendum, the president of the bloc’s executive, the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, 
“You left your national ‘hats’ at the door when you joined this institution, and that door is not closing on you now,” he said.
But having a job is not the same as having prospects, and officials believe they face a new glass ceiling, which they identify as the moderately powerful position of “head of unit.”
Senior appointments in the European institutions are fought over. Nations battle to get their people the top jobs, and Britain’s voice will no longer count. And there is a growing fear that those who stay will be sidelined as British policy influence disappears.
Robert Madelin, who took early retirement as one of the most senior British officials in the European Commission to work on new projects, believes that it is “too early to tell” whether British influence in Brussels is evaporating. He said he took comfort that even after Britain’s departure, “440 million European Union citizens will continue to benefit from the work one has done.”
By contrast, Paul Adamson, founder of E!Sharp, an online magazine on European issues, argues that Britain should be fighting to keep what it has for as long as possible. He regrets that Jonathan Hill resigned after the referendum as Britain’s European commissioner responsible for financial services and that London relinquished its presidency of the European Union, planned for next year. “We are writing ourselves out of the plot,” he said.
For British members of the European Parliament, there is no confusion. They expect that 
Claude Moraes, a Labour Party lawmaker, said that politicians were used to uncertainty but that the referendum result was “a real emotional spasm.”
An immigrant who arrived in Britain from India at age 6, he said the campaign had brought back uncomfortable memories.
“I grew up in the 1970s,” he said. “One of the things people used to say was, ‘They never gave us the chance to vote on you people coming here.’ ”
He grew up “with that ringing in my ears,” he said. “That vote has now taken place, and it came in the form of an E.U. referendum which was about immigration.”
Meanwhile, 
Not all Britons in Brussels are unhappy, however; the U.K. Independence Party, with 21 lawmakers, campaigned for withdrawal.
Vicky Ford, a Conservative Party lawmaker, is the chairwoman of Parliament’s internal market committee. She has “never had so much interest” in what she is doing, she said, because her committee’s subject matter will be at the heart of the talks.
Two other Britons, including Mr. Moraes, also head committees in the European Parliament, but these positions are up for renewal at the end of the year — another test of British influence.
Yet another is whether Britons gain positions in Parliament as lead legislators (rapporteurs in the European jargon) on new legislation.
Some ambitious younger staff members in the European Commission are applying for other European Union passports. Many are eligible for Irish citizenship, or Belgian, by residence, although that would mean losing generous allowances.
Yet no adoptive nation is likely to support their promotion prospects when there are native-born officials to think about.
But, for many, the choice of returning home, where there may be Brexit work for European experts, may not appeal to them. It would mean “going back to London on half the salary to work on feta cheese tariffs,” said one of the officials not authorized to speak publicly.
But English will still be needed, and for officials in lower administrative grades, the situation may not change much. They can take heart from the story of Ann-Karin Kind, a secretary in the European Commission, who says she has had a “fantastic career” of 37 years — and one that shows that for some Britons, there may be a long life after Brexit.
Ms. Kind joined the agriculture directorate when her country, Norway, was due to join the bloc. But 
“It’s a bit lonely sometimes, but I understand some Danish and Swedish,” she said, adding that she left Brussels for a few years but missed it and returned. “My career has gone as well as that of my colleagues.”