
“How will literature be affected by Brexit?”
This was the question four authors, myself included, were asked at a recent London bookshop event with the rather curious title “European Fiction in the United Kingdom: In or Out?” It was evident that we were expected to find Brexit detrimental. “We believe that the cultural voice was largely ignored during the referendum campaign,” the event’s moderator, Rosie Goldsmith, had observed in her preamble. A greater awareness of European culture, she felt, might have encouraged people to make a wiser decision. Ninety-seven percent of those working in the creative arts — she had the statistic on hand — had supported the Remain camp.
Authors of course live largely by their imaginations; all the same, none of us were quite able to conjure up the required predictions of post-Brexit literary decline. The British writer, illustrator and Francophile Joanna Walsh came the closest. She suspected European funding for literature would surely drop off, though admitted she had no figures. She used the expressions “cultural networks,” “university networks” and “cultural foundations,” all of which she supposed would suffer. Then aware, perhaps, that all this might seem underwhelming to our attentive audience, she fielded the notion that the European Community has been largely responsible for peace in Europe over the last six decades. In this regard the Brexit scenario was, she thought, frightening.
The hint of war upped the stakes considerably. But could it really be literature we were worried about at this point? Is one concerned about the production and circulation of quality fiction when the sabers start to rattle?
Antoine Laurain — a Parisian novelist in his 40s, splendidly droll and noncommittal — declined to take up the melodramatic scenario. He really could not see, he said apologetically, or not yet, how Brexit might affect literature. Nor did he suppose that British literature would suddenly cease to influence European writers or vice versa. Since he was struggling to say more, I interrupted and wondered how on earth a nation’s political decision to leave a trade organization could affect the literary scene. Had the European Community as such made any significant contribution to literature or the arts over its 60-year history? Not that I knew of. Had British readers become “European” in their tastes during the country’s 40-year membership? Hardly. Why would literature decline as a result of this development?
No doubt my intervention betrayed my impatience with this kind of conversation, although, looking back, the more pertinent question would have been: Why would we suppose that literature and political liberalism are mutually sustaining, the implication being that only a “healthy” or well-behaved nation produces and consumes good literature? Can that possibly be true?
The fourth writer offered the first interesting answer. Very tall, handsomely unshaven and seductively gloomy, the Romanian Claudiu Florian had more reason than the others of us to be positive about the E.C.’s influence on culture. His novel “The Ages of the Game — Citadel Street” was a recipient of the 2016 European Union Prize for Literature, which, over three-year cycles (since 2009), rewards one emerging writer from each member country, encouraging translation of his or her work throughout the European Community.
Florian is a diplomat who has worked at Romanian embassies and cultural institutes in Germany and Switzerland. It was hence predictable that he would begin by stressing what a good thing the E.C. was, though he then went on to tell us how traumatic it had been for Romania to adapt to the organization’s many rules and requirements. There was some consternation when Florian explained this by remarking that there were strong similarities between the European Community and the Soviet bloc’s Comecon in the way they allocated distinct economic roles to different countries. But as for Brexit’s affecting literature, he suddenly observed, as if stumbling across an evident truth, it could very likely have a positive influence, because of course writers were stimulated and inspired by conflict and upheaval. Dramatic events are good subject matter.
Here an abyss opens. Writing may require a minimum of stability and comfort for the actual business of getting the words down on the page, but the truth is it thrives on discomfort. “Emotion recollected in tranquillity,” was Wordsworth’s formula. You need the tranquillity, but it will be no use to you if you haven’t had the emotion. And so often that emotion will mean conflict, betrayal, sickness and breakup. Like the jackal, the writer feeds on corpses. Our literary culture begins with the carnage of the “Iliad.” It proceeds with such savage tales as Aeschylus’ “Oresteia,” the “Aeneid,” “Beowulf,” with the sins and torments of Dante’s “Inferno,” the violence of “Tamburlaine” and “Macbeth.” “War and Peace” speaks for itself. Likewise “Crime and Punishment.” Where would Hemingway be without his World War I experiences, without the bullfights and the hunting parties? How could Curzio Malaparte have written the extraordinary “Kaputt” without his time on Hitler’s Eastern Front? Even where the conflict is less bloody it can nevertheless be extremely cruel: “Madame Bovary.” “The Good Soldier.” “Women in Love.” “The Trial.” Long before funding, fiction feeds on strife.
As if to demonstrate this truth we four authors now each read out a short piece of writing. Joanna Walsh’s short story, from her collection “Vertigo,” begins with the striking line, “A friend told me to buy a red dress in Paris because I am leaving my husband.” The cryptic observations that follow, on shopping in Le Bon Marché, are all galvanized by the pain and turbulence that underlie this unhappy rite of passage, something Walsh conveyed quite disturbingly with the peremptory brittleness of her delivery, as of someone struggling to keep a grip on difficult emotions.
Antoine Laurain’s reading from his novel “French Rhapsody” was, like his comments on Brexit, wryly laconic: Essentially, an artist reflecting on his new installation — a huge inflatable model of his own brain — is primarily interested in outdoing his rivals and frustrating his critics. Though he knows it is expedient to talk piously about dialogue and dialectic, in reality everything is experienced in terms of self-promotion and rivalry. It made uneasy listening for anyone who likes to believe that artists are for the most part good and wise.
My own piece, from the novel “Thomas and Mary,” told of a woman with a talent for giving her husband and offspring hilarious if demeaning nicknames; they all have to call one another by the names she invented. In adolescence the children finally rebel, and following their example the husband too at last insists on being called by his own name, a moment that marks the beginning of the end of the marriage. So a little comedy masks a 30-year power struggle.
But it was the Romanian who had the strongest material. Far from being funded when it mattered, he described how he had written his novel in pencil during his morning and evening train commutes while working in Berlin. The story it allusively tells, in the voice of a little boy listening uncomprehendingly to his parents’ conversations through the 1970s, is that of Romanian history in the 20th century, a long chronicle of war, revolution and betrayal. Once again, the message that came across from the reading is that while life is dangerous and full of strife, art unashamedly transforms it into something engaging and even charming: We may not know how to live, but we certainly know how to talk about it.
Which is not to say that one wishes Brexit would lead to conflict just so as to promote more fiction. After all, the referendum itself was conflictual enough. The day before this literary event a friend had told me of a wedding planned for the Saturday after the vote. When it became clear the Remainers had lost, the bride sent a tweet to all invited to say that if any had voted for Brexit they were uninvited. Imagine, I immediately thought, if in the secret of the ballot box, the groom himself had been so bold. Not a bad short story, perhaps.