
LONDON — The terrorist 
With fervent advocates of Britain’s exit from the bloc already conflating terrorism with the migration crisis, the argument developed more gravity on Thursday when a former director of MI6, the British intelligence service, said that there would be little cost and some benefit for British security if it left the European Union.
The government of Prime Minister 
The government has used the Brussels attacks as another argument for security cooperation inside the European Union. Michael Fallon, the British defense secretary, argued that “we keep control of our borders, but we benefit because we share the intelligence, the flight information and the cooperation that there is between security forces across Europe.”
Britons will vote in a referendum on the question on June 23. But they may be influenced by effective support for Britain’s withdrawal from such a senior former intelligence official, Richard Dearlove, the head of MI6 from 1999 to 2004.
European Union security institutions are weak and “with 28 members of vastly varying levels of professionalism in intelligence and security, the convoy must accommodate the slowest and leakiest of the ships of state,” Mr. Dearlove argued in 
Mr. Dearlove said that Britain’s intelligence capacity was so superior to that of the other members that bilateral cooperation with Britain would continue even if it left the bloc. That was especially true, he said, of the crucial intelligence relationship with Washington, “which outweighs anything European by many factors of 10.”
Withdrawal would bring “two potentially important security gains,” Mr. Dearlove wrote, citing greater control over those traveling or immigrating from the European Union, and the ability to leave the European Convention on Human Rights, which was an obstacle to extraditing extremists like Abu Hamza al-Masri, the former radical preacher of the Finsbury Park Mosque in London.
Mr. Dearlove’s views were supported by David Davis, a Conservative legislator and a former Europe minister, who told the BBC that Britain was at risk, despite being outside the Schengen visa-free travel area, because it could not prevent any European Union citizen from immigrating to Britain. By leaving, said Mr. Davis, a supporter of withdrawal, “we’re giving ourselves back one of the most important weapons we have” against terrorism. That included the ability “to stop people at the border, check people at the border, deport people we don’t want to keep, something we can’t do at the moment, and make sure people are who they say they are.”
He said that one of the Paris attackers had traveled from Syria through five open borders, because of the Schengen accord, arguing that terrorists could “move around Europe freely and go to the place with the weakest security systems.” He added, “Many of these killers are E.U. citizens, which means even though we are outside Schengen we cannot stop them coming to Britain.”
Mr. Davis also warned that moves to give Turkish citizens more access to visa-free travel would also harm Britain, because Islamists in Syria could easily purchase Turkish documents at the Turkish-Syrian border.
At least two of the attackers are believed to have had roles in both plots.
Rob Wainwright, the British director of Europol, the bloc’s law enforcement agency, and himself a former intelligence officer, said that the idea that Britain would be safer outside the European Union “doesn’t stand scrutiny” and leaving would be “a serious miscalculation.”
While expressing respect for Mr. Dearlove, Mr. Wainwright said he was badly out of date.
“In the 10 years since he left office, I’ve seen huge progress in the E.U. in building up a far stronger ability to fight terrorism and serious crime,” Mr. Wainwright said, adding that Britain had been the central “driver” of increased police cooperation across the bloc in the past decade.
“The scale and level of the integration the U.K. now has with its E.U. partners in this domain is considerable,” he told the BBC. “I see the benefits of that for British police authorities every day,” he said, citing the European arrest warrant and the Europol database, and adding that last year Britain had initiated 2,500 new cross-border cases.
In January, Mr. Wainwright said, Europol began a 
Mr. Fallon also rejected the Dearlove argument, telling Channel Four: “What is very clear to me as the defense secretary charged with helping to keep this country safe is that we should not be leaving international organizations or intelligence-sharing partnerships. That would be exactly the wrong thing to do.”
On the contrary, he said, “When you are faced with a terrorist threat, we should be sharing as much information as possible, and we should be coming to the aid of our allies and friends rather than walking out on them.”
The debate took on an American tone with the entrance of Donald J. Trump, the outspoken candidate for the Republican presidential nomination.
After insisting in an interview broadcast on Wednesday that British Muslims do not cooperate with the police — an assertion flatly denied by Home Secretary Theresa May — Mr. Trump predicted that Britons would vote for departure from the European Union because they were fed up with immigration.
“With the craziness that is going on with the migration, with people pouring in all over the place, I think that Britain will end up separating from the E.U. — that’s my opinion,” Mr. Trump said in another segment of the ITV television interview broadcast on Thursday.
He was not endorsing Britain’s departure, Mr. Trump said, but he added, “I think a lot of people want to see that happen.”
He has already roiled British opinion with his proposals to ban Muslims from entering the United States, at least temporarily, and to build a wall with Mexico. More than 570,000 Britons signed a petition to ban Mr. Trump from entering Britain, setting off a semiserious parliamentary debate. Mr. Trump called the episode “disgraceful.”
President Obama is due here next month to urge Britons to remain in the European Union.