
Re “
As a British citizen living in New York City, I see the future as uncertain at best, and bleak at worst. It has been hard through the first half of this year — coddled as I am by my Democratic-leaning surroundings and Labour-leaning Facebook feed — to believe that either of two things could happen: Donald Trump winning the presidency, or Britain leaving the European Union. I was proved wrong in Thursday’s referendum, and my confidence that America would not, in the end, elect Mr. Trump has been shaken.
A vote for Leave was a vote for increased sovereignty, certainly, but also for a nationalism that we can ill afford in a time of increasing polarization, and that legitimizes and encourages the same elsewhere.
Being part of the European Union has brought Britain closer to the other nations of Europe, and also to the rest of the world. It has widened our focus and our expectations, encouraging — and sometimes compelling — us to meet and accustom ourselves to difference to a degree that is not possible in Britain alone.
Leaving will mean a contraction of ambition and empathy. Perhaps it reflects a desire for just that. But it’s a loss that I feel deeply, and that I think leaves our world worse off than before, both in the decision itself and the precedent it sets.
FERGUS McINTOSH
Brooklyn
While polling showed a close race in recent weeks, the news that Britain has voted to exit the European Union still comes as a shock and surprise. Alas, I can’t help feeling that the vote was based on bigotry toward immigrants.
David Cameron has announced that he plans to step down by the fall, which opens the door perhaps for Boris Johnson to be the prime minister. The future is unknown and unsettled, but those of us who are Anglophiles and love the United Kingdom will hope for the best — especially as the British people’s decision could affect the rest of the world.
JENNIFER DORN 
New York
Could I thank President Obama for coming to Britain and telling us to vote Remain? His exhortations, along with those of other foreign politicians, multimillionaire businessmen and bankers, helped persuade the British people that the wealthy Davos elite was interested in keeping Britain in the European Union for its own political and commercial reasons rather than for the good of the Brits.
No American would tolerate being governed by a group of unelected bureaucrats with laws imposed on them by politicians of other countries. That is why we voted for Leave. The United Kingdom has now become a free, independent nation once again, and we will continue to work and trade with the whole world.
We are pleased that, after the Brexit victory, President Obama said, “The United Kingdom and the European Union will remain indispensable partners of the United States,” which is a welcome change from his comments when he visited here that if we voted to leave, then we would be at the end of the queue to get a trade deal.
DAVID BLENCATHRA
London
It is perhaps not surprising that England, the birthplace of the Luddite movement, the group attempting to negate the social and economic disruption of the Industrial Revolution, voted to leave the European Union. After all, the emotions animating “Brexit” are very similar to those of their brethren two centuries ago: fear of rapid technological change, an uncertain future and, of course, the foreign “other.”
But history has shown how unwise and wrong that view was. Nevertheless, we should not ignore the desperation and anguish of those who fear for their way of life and a threatened future. I hope that imprudent and isolationist sentiments do not have similar disastrous effects here in America.
PHILIP M. ROSOFF
Durham, N.C.
I think Thomas Jefferson would be very proud of the people of Great Britain, for as he said, “A little rebellion now and then is a good thing, and as necessary in the political world as storms in the physical.” And with 72 percent of the British electorate voting, I feel that Jefferson would be doubly happy knowing that the citizens of Great Britain took their civic duties seriously.
Whether or not this is the right decision, only time will tell. But this historic vote demonstrated to the world that democracy does work — that through civil public discourse the body politic at large can make a well-informed collective decision that all parties can recognize as fair and just.
NEIL J. BLUM
Glenview, Ill.
Dear Brits: We Americans want to congratulate you on your vote to exit the modern world. Now that your prime minister is resigning, you need a brave new leader who can Make Britain Great Again (ca. 1775?).
We have just the man for you: He will round up all those pesky immigrants, he’ll negotiate unbelievably good deals with those trading partners you just shoved off, and in a pinch he’ll rebuild Hadrian’s Wall.
Quite frankly, we would appreciate if you could take him off our hands. You’re welcome to Donald Trump!
SEBASTIAN KUHN
Norfolk, Va.