
Milan — THE British have a reputation for being calm under pressure. It’s a stereotype, sure, but it’s something I noticed time and again in the decades I spent working in and reporting on the country, from my interactions on the street to the goings-on in Parliament. It’s written into their literature and their language, all of which seems intended to remind the world of a simple fact: They will not overreact. Rudyard Kipling’s 
Admirable, of course. But when it comes to Europe these days, the British are not keeping their heads at all. The prelude to the referendum on Britain’s membership in the European Union, to be held on June 23, is turning out to be everything 
The two camps — should we stay or should we go? — have been at each other’s throats for some time. The “debates” on TV and in Parliament regularly devolve into shouting matches. Concessions recently 
The British have always looked down on Southern Europeans — including us Italians — as dangerously emotional. But this time, they are following our lead. And this is unfortunate, as the rational arguments are all on one side.
In the event of a Brexit, jobs will go. The City — their all-important financial center — will suffer. Some support the move as a way to regain a measure of lost sovereignty, but as 
This passionate turn by Britain — actually, England and Wales; if Northern Ireland and Scotland could, they’d stay put — is not particularly surprising. The passion is not only about Europe, and it’s not entirely new. The warming of the English sang-froid has been going on for some time.
I first noticed a growing propensity for the English to overindulge their feelings in the wake of the death of Diana, Princess of Wales, in 1997. The composure of the funeral guests was in stark contrast to the behavior of the crowd outside Westminster Abbey: emotional, bereft, even distraught. There were not only tears, there was hugging. London was not London that day, it was Rome or Naples; it wore its heart on its sleeve, like New York. It was an unrecognizable city, its nerves frayed, sharing its grief. It was the first proof, to my eyes, that the English were losing their imperturbability.
The funeral was an inflection point, but it wasn’t a beginning. It merely highlighted changes that had been underway for decades. When I first encountered England as a student, it seemed that, aside from the few who took part in the Swinging ’60s and ’70s, the English didn’t know how to have fun. But that soon began to change. They ventured abroad on vacation. Long before the global public took notice, English chefs were learning to cook and serve actual food, and dining out — al fresco, even — became something people did for fun, not just sustenance.
So it has continued apace. And it’s not just about having a good time; the English have learned to abandon stoicism and silent suffering. Colleagues argue, friends open their hearts, couples break up instead of putting up with each other for years. They’ve stopped hiding their feelings as if they were a nasty rash. If they’re happy, they laugh. If in pain, they cry. And if they disagree, they shout. Just like the Italians.
The rise of Boris Johnson is emblematic. A bombastic former journalist in charge of London? Until a few years ago, inconceivable. In the new excitable Britain, quite normal. And he may end up at 10 Downing Street, if his Brexit gamble pays off.
The rest of Europe can only watch this new trend — and worry, as it could lead to an irrational decision on June 23. Awash with migrants, threatened by terrorism, let down by its eastern members, flanked by a nervous Russia and a volatile North Africa, the European Union can only hope that the new, emotional Britain will not get carried away.
Unfortunately, it might. One even hears calls for the “Dunkirk spirit” — ironically, a reference to a great triumph by the old, reserved Britain — to rally supporters of a Brexit against the union.
For once, leave it to an Italian to sound a note of reason: Come off it. To be alone against enemies in 1940 was heroic. To be alone among friends in 2016 would be absurd.