
LONDON — A decade ago, Tony Blair became the 
This was the astonishing outcome in Britain of the disclosure of the Panama Papers, the 11.5 million documents 
Mr. Cameron’s father, Ian, was a prosperous stockbroker and a founder of Blairmore Holdings, an investment fund that was 
Naturally, these details have been pored over by media and politicians alike — and there is absolutely no evidence of illegality or wrongdoing by Mr. Cameron. As prime minister, he has always insisted on his determination “to tackle the global scourge of aggressive tax avoidance and evasion.” None of the transactions disclosed by the Camerons is remotely inconsistent with that ambition.
Why all the fuss then? Understandably infuriated by what he saw as an attack on his father, whom he revered, Mr. Cameron was slow to respond to the media’s demands for information and inadvertently nurtured the impression that he had something to hide. By the time he disclosed the data, his reputation had already taken a hit. Although Mr. Cameron regained his composure in the House of Commons last week, this only limited, rather than repaired, the political damage.
In truth, this was never likely to become a scandal that exposed the prime minister as having breached the spirit, let alone the letter, of the rules. By temperament, Mr. Cameron is risk-averse. It was very much in character that he sold his shares before becoming prime minister because, as he put it, he “
There is, however, a deeper-seated problem. For centuries, the Conservative Party has been seen as a bastion of wealth, the friend of the powerful and the voice of the affluent. In the 1980s, Margaret Thatcher led a remarkable recruitment drive, spreading property ownership by enabling the tenants of public housing to buy their homes from the state and encouraging the mass ownership of shares. By the time she left Downing Street 
That was a social revolution. But it did not cleanse the Tory Party itself of its unappealing image as a club for the greedy. When Mr. Cameron 
What made this crusade counterintuitive was Mr. Cameron’s own background. A former student at Eton and Oxford, the new Tory leader was a product of elite English institutions. This was scarcely his fault, but would anyone believe a word when he discussed public services and welfare benefits? The task grew even harder after 2010 when the primary task facing him and his similarly privileged chancellor of the Exchequer, George Osborne, was to reduce the swollen deficit.
The surprise is that it has taken so long for the matter of their personal wealth to dominate political discourse. When the Conservative rebel Nadine Dorries attacked Mr. Cameron and Mr. Osborne in 2012, she 
It is no accident, though, that the spring of 2016 should be the moment when Mr. Cameron’s personal wealth has finally come under scrutiny. On June 23, the country will hold a historic referendum to decide whether Britain leaves the European Union. It is a decision of momentous importance, and the outcome will depend heavily on the public’s trust in Mr. Cameron, who is campaigning for Britain to remain in the union.
The more the prime minister appears a remote person benefiting from special entitlements, the less likely voters are to follow his lead. The average annual salary in Britain 
Voters may or may not disapprove of Mr. Cameron’s inheritance, but what the partisans of Britain’s exit from the European Union hope is that the prime minister’s fortune, disclosed in detail at a critical time, will drive a wedge between him and the electorate. In a race so far tightly contested, the pro-European Union camp cannot afford to surrender an inch of psychological terrain.
Do the voters still perceive Mr. Cameron as trustworthy and in touch? It is too early to say. But the ground is moving beneath his feet: There has rarely been a riskier time for a politician here to be rich.