
LONDON — Buckingham Palace said on Wednesday that it had filed a formal complaint against The Sun, Britain’s biggest tabloid, after the newspaper 
A 
The Sun, citing anonymous sources, reported on Tuesday that the queen had made her skepticism of the European Union known during a lunch at Windsor Castle with Nick Clegg, who was the deputy prime minister under the previous government, and at a reception at Buckingham Palace with members of Parliament. The newspaper did not provide dates or any other details of the two occasions.
A spokeswoman for the royal family denied the report.
“The queen remains politically neutral, as she has for 63 years,” the spokeswoman said Tuesday evening, speaking on the condition of anonymity under palace rules. “We will not comment on spurious, anonymously sourced claims. The referendum is a matter for the British people to decide.”
In a statement on Wednesday, the spokeswoman added, “I can confirm that we have this morning written to the chairman of the 
The organization, which was founded in 2014, is the independent news media regulator in Britain. It has the power to compel members to publish corrections, and, “in cases where failings are particularly serious and systemic,” it can impose financial penalties.
The spokeswoman for the royal household said the complaint, the first the monarchy has made with the new regulator, was filed under Clause 1 of the Editors’ Code of Practice, which states: “The press must take care not to publish inaccurate, misleading or distorted information or images, including headlines not supported by the text.”
The Sun 
The palace’s decision to file a complaint is unusual. In 1999 and 2012, the royal household opened cases with the Press Complaints Commission, the predecessor to the Independent Press Standards Organization, after embarrassing images of members of the royal family were circulated online.
The queen, who acceded to the throne in 1952 and in September 
However, there are occasional glimpses into her personal views.
In September 2014, before a referendum on whether Scotland should leave the United Kingdom, she 
Last month, the queen’s grandson Prince William, who is second in line to the throne, after Prince Charles, was seen as supporting staying in the European Union when he said at a speech in London, “For centuries, Britain has been an outward-looking nation,” and added: “We have a long, proud tradition of seeking out allies and partners.”
In both instances, the royal household denied that the monarchy was taking a political stance.