
BOSTON, England — Workers wearing fluorescent orange clothing picked their way through rows of dark green kale, looking like inmates on a prison farm.
After a long day of labor, which pays the minimum hourly wage, they return to a makeshift camp surrounded by barbed wire and security fences put up by their employer, 
Many of these men and women are from Eastern Europe. They are in Britain legally under the European Union’s principle of freedom of movement and labor, which allows any citizen of a European Union nation to work in any other member country.
But their presence has caused anxiety and resentment in Boston, a town on the east coast of England that has come to epitomize this country’s rising antagonism toward immigration. The increasing number of foreigners in the country has become a central issue for voters in the 
“There are far too many of them,” said Peter Chamberlain, 61, as he sat on a bench recently and watched two Polish men argue loudly in their native language. “I’d accept being less well-off to get the town back.”
Boston, a town of 67,000, experienced a sixfold increase in foreign-born residents from 2001 to 2011, and the non-British population appears to have continued growing in the last five years, official statistics show. The rapid influx has put a strain on housing, jobs, policing, hospitals and schools, which are scrambling to find more teachers of English.
Given the anxieties in towns like Boston, Prime Minister 
Unable to alter the principle of freedom of movement, Mr. Cameron secured instead a restriction on the benefits that workers from other European Union countries can claim in Britain for four years. He hopes the temporary measure will make Britain a less-attractive destination for Europeans seeking jobs — or at least show British voters that he is responding to their concerns.
Mr. Cameron’s efforts to limit benefits, however, are being 
Supporters of Britain leaving the bloc, or a “
In Boston, both European immigrants and British residents say they are closely following the debate over Britain leaving the European Union.
The community feels “uncertainty, a little fear about the situation,” said the Rev. Stanislaw Kowalski, a priest at St. Mary’s Roman Catholic Church and chaplain to the Polish community, who is himself an immigrant. Some immigrants are delaying decisions about their lives because they are worried they may need to go back to their native country, Father Kowalski added.
A number of immigrants said that they agreed with Mr. Cameron’s view that immigration had to be controlled. The problem, they said, was Britain’s generous welfare system.
“Britain needs to tidy up the system,” said Gregory Pacho, a Polish-Italian immigrant who owns a taxi company. “It’s pleasant when someone holds your hand, and the system encourages people not to work.”
Boston residents who want to see Britain out of the European Union said they were prepared to give up any of the economic benefits the bloc provides to regain control over immigration.
If Britain leaves the European Union, it could lose full access to the European markets on which agricultural businesses like those in Boston depend.
“It frustrates the hell out of me that we have our hands tied” by the European Union, said Yvonne Stevens, a local councilor and a member of the U.K. Independence Party, which leads one of the two coalitions campaigning for leaving the bloc.
Ms. Stevens said she would like to see the freedom of movement replaced by something similar to 
Whether Boston would attract skilled jobs under such a system is unclear. The town has historically relied on cheap labor, which is necessary if British consumers want low-priced produce.
And because manual labor like fruit picking faces little competition, resentment is growing over jobs and wages. The oversupply of cheap labor, the argument goes, has limited workers’ negotiating power. In agriculture, for example, the minimum wage for pickers of £6.20 per hour has become a de facto ceiling.
John Ebton, 75, who worked in a pickling factory for 24 years, fondly recalled the days in 1975 when vegetable pickers were paid £3 an hour, about £23 an hour today, adjusted for inflation. “I felt secure that I’d have a job the next day,” he said.
Many Bostonians share Mr. Ebton’s reasoning. However, judging the negative effects of immigration by such easy comparisons is naïve, said Christian Dustmann, director of the Center for Research and Analysis of Migration at University College London.
Without immigration, he said, British workers in Boston might have lost out in different ways: Local farms could have mechanized part of their labor or shut down altogether, and British supermarkets may have imported cheaper produce.
Britain will hold a referendum on Thursday on whether to leave the European Union, a decision nicknamed “Brexit.”
“There are many jobs that would not have existed without immigration,” he said.
Take a look around Boston, said Mr. Pacho, whose taxi company thrives on ferrying laborers between the center of town and work. Ten years ago, the local Asda, a budget supermarket, had only 10 cash registers, he said. Today, it has been renamed a “superstore” and is open 24 hours.
Most of the immigrants spend their money locally. Shops that were shuttered a decade ago on West Street have reopened as businesses catering mainly to Eastern Europeans. (Some local Britons complain the area has become a “no-go zone.”)
The fresh supply of labor has also attracted more companies to the area. Agribusinesses that relied solely on picking have now expanded to include processing and packaging. “A lot of the white-collar jobs in food processing are done by British,” Mr. Dustmann said.
Miroslav, a Romanian who until recently worked picking cauliflower, said his job made him feel disposable. “You’re just like a tire,” he said, asking that his surname not be used to avoid local anger. “When they’re finished with the tire, they throw it away.”
And yet, after a year, he saved enough to become a taxi driver. A former typographer, Miroslav aspires to open a business here, and he said he hoped Britain would remain in the European Union.
“Here, I can use my brain,” he said. “Here, I have the opportunity to use my head, to start a business, and put it back in Britain.”