
LONDON — With a 
The heightened tensions were exposed late Friday by the 
But the government had already signaled that it was reconsidering the cuts because of opposition to them, and Mr. Duncan Smith’s decision to step down was widely seen as a more fundamental break with Mr. Cameron and his No. 2, George Osborne, the chancellor of the Exchequer, who are leading the campaign for Britain to stay in the European Union. Mr. Duncan Smith had been one of six senior cabinet ministers supporting a British exit from the bloc.
“This really seems to be about the European referendum campaign,” the pensions minister, Ros Altmann, said 
Ms. Altmann added that “as far as I could tell, he appeared to spend much of the last few months plotting over Europe and against the leadership of the party, and it seemed to me he had been planning to find a reason to resign for a long time.”
Mr. Duncan Smith rejected that argument on Sunday, saying on the BBC that he felt he had become “semidetached” from the government and that the proposed welfare cuts were “deeply unfair” because they were “juxtaposed” with tax cuts for the wealthy.
Though the government said overall spending on disability benefits would grow, the changes outlined Wednesday suggested an eventual savings of more than 4 billion pounds, or about $5.7 billion, in disability benefits offered to about 640,000 people.
By the time Mr. Duncan Smith quit, the government had made clear that it was reconsidering the proposals.
Britain’s Sunday newspapers featured accounts of the acrimonious fallout between Mr. Cameron and Mr. Duncan Smith. 
At one level, Mr. Duncan Smith’s departure highlighted the enmities at the top of the Conservative Party, including resentment of Mr. Osborne, who is seen as a candidate to succeed Mr. Cameron. The prime minister has said he will not seek another term after this one expires in 2020.
Mr. Osborne and Mr. Duncan Smith do not get along, and their relationship has been worsened by tensions going back years over welfare policy.
But the root of the current problems dates to January 2013, when 
Now it looks increasingly as if Mr. Cameron won time, not unity.
Under pressure from those who favor a British exit from the bloc, Mr. Cameron is allowing ministers to campaign against his policy of remaining in the European Union, effectively creating two camps within the government.
Mr. Duncan Smith has been highly vocal in his criticism of Mr. Cameron’s stance on Europe, describing one official document about the European Union as a “dodgy dossier.” There was speculation that Mr. Duncan Smith might lose his cabinet job after the referendum, if Britons vote to remain, and his most notable defenders on Sunday included those who also favor leaving the bloc.
The nature of his departure, along with his strongly worded resignation letter, seemed designed to inflict maximum damage on Mr. Osborne’s political reputation even if that undermined Mr. Cameron’s authority.
On Sunday, Mr. Cameron said that the result of the Europe plebiscite was likely to be close, and that the outcome could depend on whether those who favor remaining, but do not feel very strongly about the issue, turn out to vote.
“My fear is turnout,” Mr. Cameron said in an 