
CANNES, France — In his novel “Tender Is the Night” the American novelist F.Scott Fitzgerald, writing about the Côte d’Azur, conjured up “the diffused magic of the hot sweet South ... the soft-pawed night and the ghostly wash of the Mediterranean far below.”
That stretch of evocative coastline, which includes the resort towns of St. Tropez, Cannes and Menton, could be called less soft-pawed today. Now, a United Nations of languages babble from the hot sidewalks and the burning beaches while hedge fund managers look on from the comfort of their yachts.
In 2015, Provence, which includes the Côte d’Azur, was the most popular French region among international buyers, accounting for 22 percent of all sales, according to the website French-Property.com. At the same time, the British real estate company Knight Frank reported that residential sales across France had increased 12.5 percent from 2014 to 2015 and the company welcomed a more stable economic outlook, which was reflected in the doubling of its own sales.
But that was then. Since those optimistic days, Europe and much of the world has been shaken by “Brexit,” the British decision to leave the European Union, and it is impossible to discuss any subject, let alone property in Provence, without acknowledging the terrorist attack on Nice in July in which 85 people were killed.
Laurence Chaleil, the general manager of Sotheby’s International Realty in Cannes, 21 miles along the coast from Nice, faces both those issues unflinchingly. When we first met, before the attack, she mentioned the decline in the number of American buyers, who were deterred from investing by their fear of terrorism, making the point that more people are killed by guns in the United States than in Europe (13,467 in the United States in 2015, according to Gun Violence Archive, a nonprofit website; and about 6,700 a year in the European Union, says the Flemish Peace Institute, an independent research group).
Now she acknowledges: “The attack in Nice will surely lead to some immediate negative consequences on local tourism. Terrorism always has this temporary effect. Nevertheless, we cannot forecast a lasting decrease on the market. We hope not.”
And Brexit? “The vote is too recent to seriously appreciate the impact it could have on the Riviera real estate market,” Mrs. Chaleil said. “The exit will last several years. Currently we believe that Brexit should have a positive effect, because people will spend less in the U.K. and switch to the European Union countries, and the Riviera, instead. ”
So, this could still be a good time to buy. For those who want to be in the thick of the action, a penthouse on La Croisette, the boulevard that follows the Cannes shoreline for more than one mile, is for sale at €7.5 million or nearly $8.5 million, with Property Europe Online. Recently renovated, in 60 square meters, or 650 square feet, it contains five rooms and three bedrooms and has a wide terrace with views to the yachts in the bay and the mountains behind.
Mrs. Chaleil takes us further up-market with her selection of villas, condos and castles, most of which are at the €10 million mark. Or more.
The recently restored red brick Château Soligny at Cannes is all crenellations and arched windows overlooking the Mediterranean, and, with nine bedrooms, nine baths, a home movie theater and a wine cellar, it has an asking price in the range of €55 million and €60 million. The shoreside Palais Maeterlinck in Nice, a monolithic former hotel, is being converted into 18 residences “‘without equal in Europe,” as the brochure has it, with the option of having a home styled by Ralph Lauren Home. Prices range from €2.9 million to €11.9 million.
The most imposing property on her books is the 
Set in lawns under parasol pines and towering cypresses, from the front it appears as a stately, Florentine-style mansion, while at the rear, Palladian columns add an improbable grandeur. The showstopper is the view from the steps over the pool, which seems to disappear into space and merge with the blue sea in the distance. Inside is a hallway in white stone, so big and so formal that one half expects to be welcomed by a butler with a tray of martinis. But behind the scenes the kitchen needs updating, as do the huge bedrooms and marbled bathrooms, which are lined with wall-to-wall mirrors.
It all feels like the kind of place a clichéd Russian oligarch would pay too much for — except that the Russians aren’t coming. Two million are said to have been forbidden by their government to spend overseas because of their personal debts, a number that is rising in part because of the country’s faltering economy.
“The Russians had inflated the prices before,” said Mrs. Chaleil, whose office door has signs in Russian, as well as French. “Now prices are dropping to a more realistic level and are even more attractive because of the very low interest rates of about 1 to 1.5 percent. Nearly half our clients are coming from France compared with 10 percent before, though they tend to go for smaller places at lower prices.”
Maybe they should head inland, where a succession of delightful villages, little-known spots such as such as Seillans, Fayence and popular destinations like St. Paul de Vence, perch prettily on hilltops. You could find a substantial four-bedroom villa with a pool in any one of them for less than €1 million, but few are more enticing than a villa in Tourrettes sur Loup, a few kilometers from St. Paul de Vence.
It is owned by Francine Farkas Sears, an American entrepreneur, and she has brought her sound good taste to improvements to the villa: an opulent master bedroom suite with its own terrace and bathroom with Jacuzzi, four other bedrooms and bathrooms, and a living space that meanders from open-air cooking area into a kitchen fit for a master chef.
There are also indoor and outdoor dining areas, and elegant living rooms in stone and terra-cotta, all linked with arches that open on to the pool and the garden. The sale, which is being handled by Alexandra Connolly, a local agent, is valued between €5 million and €6 million.
And then there is the view: priceless. From the terrace, you look over a precipitous wooded valley owned by the queen of Denmark — so no threat of development — and across the dark undulations of the hills there is Cannes and the Mediterranean. “It’s not real,” joked Mrs. Farkas Sears. “This is really wallpaper. It’s a painting.”