
Editorial writers and opinion columnists around the world have reacted to Donald J. Trump’s election as the 45th president of the United States. Below is a sampling of their views.
The victory of Donald Trump confirms some lessons that everybody already knew … but which nobody wanted to understand.
The first is that disgust has become the principal engine of elections. Forget policy proposals: People are voting for personalities, not for candidates; for likability, not ideology; to reject someone, not out of conviction.
The second was seen in 
The third and perhaps most serious is that this disgust is easily exploitable through populism: telling people what they want to hear; polarizing the world into good guys and bad guys; making campaigns into reality shows; and pushing with such insistence the button of false patriotism.
If the United States were a banana republic, the outcome of this election would be damaging only for its unfortunate inhabitants. But this nation provides international security and global economic stability. One false step by the government of the United States could drag the rest of the world into turmoil that only benefits those who are careless or enemies of Western values. These are not signs of optimism. Since brazen lying was Trump’s main electoral weapon, it’s hard to know if he’s being honest when he promises to govern for all Americans. What is clear is that he didn’t present any credentials for occupying the world’s most important political position, aside from his distinguished handling of demagogic degeneracy. God save America!
The world waits nervously to see if Mr. Trump’s policies are as incendiary as his words. The shift to a more positive tone since the election result is a first step. But this remains a moment of great peril. Mr. Trump’s victory, coming after the Brexit referendum vote in Britain, looks like another grievous blow to the liberal international order. Mr. Trump must decide, by his actions and words, whether he intends to contribute to the great unraveling, at incalculable cost to the West.
Donald Trump’s election is an earthquake, a game changer for Western democracy. Like the fall of the Berlin Wall and 9/11, this event marks the beginning of a new world where only one thing is certain: in this new place, everything that was once thought impossible, or unrealistic, is now conceivable. Each country is different, but the anger common in every one is rooted in a broad fear of globalization that focuses on two themes: immigration control and income inequality. The British cast their Brexit votes with those in mind. Trump predicted his victory would be a “Brexit times 10.” He was right. And this is also a way of saying that Europe is not protected from the seismic shift that has just shaken Washington to the core. …
Unfortunately for her, Hillary Clinton embodied perfectly the quintessence of the American political elite. Rightly or wrongly, her image reflected the status quo — despite her having the most solid and achievable program. There are many lessons to be learned from this election. Traditional political parties must take heed. So must the media and the pollsters, who for the most part, did not predict this outcome and no longer know how to gauge public opinion. These lessons are all the more vital because those who represent the voices of protest anger, whether it be Trump or his European clones, have no idea how to solve these complex problems. They sell illusions, and Trump is the master illusionist. They live off simplistic arguments which threaten our democracies. From Paris, Trump’s victory coming after Brexit is another prescient warning. In this new postelection world, everything is possible. The prospect that we in France are still unable to look at in the eye looms: the rise to power of the far right.
America is a revolutionary nation where populism asserted itself in 1829 with the election of Andrew Jackson; it’s a phenomenon to be respected even by those who do not share in it. More so because it is something that affects us closely, being very similar to the discontent of the European middle class that generated “Brexit” and that nurtures a heterogeneous galaxy of protest movements from France, to Germany, to our country.
Trump has presented pro-Putin elites with a hope (largely irrational) that this force majeur — and that’s how Trump’s sudden victory can be viewed — will break the unequivocal anti-Russian trend... Even if that hope won’t materialize (and chances are high that it won’t), Trump’s victory is perceived by Russian elites as a tactical advantage. Trump is a synonym of uncertainty and ambiguity, of the old logical and axiological constructions being demolished, of a moderate, however temporary, demoralization of the American political class and of Washington’s allies. Even if the Kremlin supports Trump, it’s far from placing a bet on Trump as such. This is a game with an aim to cause internal chaos in the most problematic foreign policy partner of Russia ... Trump’s election is also a moral and psychological victory for Putin by which he gains a very strong case about the crisis of traditional Western democracy and its institutions, about peoples’ fatigue from politicians who “grew detached from reality,” about the civilizational crisis of the West where citizens have found a way to voice their protest by electing “freaks.”
Much will be said about the strange victory of Donald Trump — despite the suspicious consensus of the largest American newspapers and televisions, which predicted his defeat. The press sought to destroy him with vicious, organized campaigns, accusing him of being inexperienced and perverted, selfish and aggressive, etc. Alongside them, opinion polls that claimed to follow scientific methods claimed he would lose, putting forward numbers and percentages showing him to be the loser.
That itself needs extensive study. It questions assumptions about the active role of advertising in political races, and the role of direct communication between the people whom Trump relied on until he achieved his unexpected win — which he achieved with an overwhelming majority. …
We must now consider the positive points on which we can cooperate — especially his clear statements to fight terrorism and particularly his promise to eliminate the Islamic State. …
As for Hillary Clinton, her loss will bring many gains for Egypt and the Arab region. She was involved in every act of sabotage which befell the region since even before she became secretary of state. She adopted the policy of relying on so-called moderate Islam, and considered the 
An Islamophobe is bad for India, not least because Islam is one of India’s faiths, practiced by 15 percent of its people: Anyone who seeks to harm Muslims seeks to harm 150 million Indians. A Sinophobe is bad for India because China is a pillar of the global economy, of which this country is now a part. A man who harbors racist views about one set of brown people — Latin Americans, say — is unlikely to think well of others.
But perhaps most important, Trump is bad for India because he is bad for his own country, and the well-being of the U.S. is now closely connected to our own. There is every indication that his leadership will harm American interests, at home and abroad. Even the attempt to keep some of his more outlandish promises — to build a wall along the border with Mexico; to tear up defense treaties with NATO, Japan and Korea; to reverse policies designed to forestall climate change — will weaken the U.S., just when India’s ties to it are at their strongest.
Some people have called this a “political uprising,” or an American “Cultural Revolution.” Although these descriptions may be far-fetched, they do capture something of the current ideological and political spirit of America. Although Trump’s name has long become familiar worldwide, the United States and the world were never mentally prepared for him to become U.S. president. … Therefore his victory will first of all bring a powerful emotional shock. His election has left people with a feeling of their frameworks being smashed and foundations shaking. …
Trump’s foreign policy will be one of the areas of greatest uncertainty. The direction of Sino-U.S. and Russian-U.S. relations will affect international relations in their entirety. ... There might be more of an element of bargaining in Sino-U.S. relations, and arguments over some key interests will sharpen, but Trump’s interest in a new kind of Sino-U.S. great power relationship should be greater than Obama’s, who was heavily influenced by Hillary Clinton’s foreign-policy thinking.
The nightmare has come true. A political outsider with no government experience has become the president of the United States, the world’s most powerful country. This is a shocking and momentous event that defies common sense and conventional wisdom. He is a business tycoon prone to obscene conduct, malicious speech and eccentricity. His election is an epochal phenomenon that eclipses Brexit. The victory of Trump the 
There is no doubt that the global leadership of the United States will come into question with the emergence of a president who openly puts a priority on the interests of an inward-looking United States. If Mr. Trump seriously desires to recover the strong America he called for during his election campaign, we hope he will rebuild trust and return to American values once again.
Now we know. For 20 years, Australians have been happy to assume that America had the strength and resolve to remain the world’s leading power. In particular, our leaders have assured us that we can rely on America’s power and judgment to manage China’s rise, to keep Asia stable and Australia safe. But now we know that America is not the country we thought it was.
Americans themselves will of course be in deep shock at this outcome, and it may take some time for the shape of Donald Trump’s new America to become clear. But we can be pretty sure that the old image of America’s role in the world, so confidently asserted by the policy elites on both sides of the U.S. political divide, has been smashed by American voters. They have elected as president a man who does not believe in the vision of American leadership on which Australia has for so long relied. …
The reality is that while American political leaders and policy intellectuals have talked incessantly about America’s unchallengeable power and unshakable resolve, its voters and taxpayers — and the social-economic classes that provide most of the soldiers — have seen money and often lives wasted in a long series of policy failures. Who can wonder that an electorate already angry about economic stagnation and poor services turn their backs on all this.