
LONDON — For all the high-minded talk of sovereignty and the political urgency of issues like immigration, 
After squabbling over the European Union for decades, the party has now imposed its internal obsession on the British people in the form of an 
Mr. Cameron, who favors staying in Europe, hoped the referendum could be framed as thrusting modernists versus nostalgic old fogies. Yet he and his ally George Osborne, the chancellor of the Exchequer, find themselves opposed by one of Mr. Cameron’s closest friends, Justice Minister Michael Gove, and 
More disturbing for Mr. Cameron and Mr. Osborne is that nearly half of the 330 Conservative members of Parliament — at least 140 by most counts, including six cabinet members — now support a “Brexit,” from the European Union. Not long ago, Downing Street insisted that only 80 Tory legislators would oppose their prime minister.
If the next four months are anything like the first weeks of the campaign, the divisions will only get worse, especially if the vote turns out to be close as early polls suggest.
“This is a boil which has been filling with pus for 20 years, and it shouldn’t surprise anybody that it has burst in this way,” said Christopher Patten, a former Tory minister and party chairman. Fervently pro-European, Mr. Patten said he believes that a British exit could be the biggest blow to the nation’s foreign policy since its 1956 intervention in Suez.
Europe has been a dividing line among Conservatives since the days of Margaret Thatcher. The dispute’s ideological roots are varied. They encompass an economic argument that Brussels is too heavy-handed with regulation, and assertions that institutions like the European Court of Justice are trampling on the nation’s sovereignty. They stem from a preference in some quarters for a foreign policy more linked to the United States than to the Continent on which Britain has spilled so much blood, and in some cases reflect a nostalgia for a time when the country mattered more in global affairs.
The intensity of the anti-Europe forces among Tory members of Parliament has grown in recent years, partly as a result of a kind of purity test imposed on Conservatives seeking to be chosen as candidates and partly in keeping with a growing populist reaction against Brussels across Europe in the wake of a severe economic downturn.
The seminal moment in the party’s transformation was in November 1990 when Mrs. Thatcher was forced from power, in part over divisions within her party over closer integration with Europe, including the then-nascent push to create a single European currency. Mr. Patten, a participant in the effort to drive her out of office, said that euroskepticism was “fueled partly by the sense that Margaret Thatcher’s defenestration was over Europe,” though it was largely over plans for a new tax that Tories felt could cost them the next election.
Mrs. Thatcher’s successor, John Major, led the party to victory in 1992, but was increasingly harassed by his own ministers over Europe. And in 1997 the Conservatives lost in a landslide, party membership shrank and centrist supporters drifted away, leaving a core that was generally older and more critical of Europe.
Tim Bale, a professor of politics at Queen Mary University of London and a student of the Conservative Party, sees “generational replacement” since the heyday of Mrs. Thatcher. “An evolutionary mechanism has set in whereby survival of the fittest can be equated to survival of the most euroskeptic,” he said.
Conservative activists, who tend to have strong anti-Europe views, have the final say in selecting candidates for parliamentary constituencies. So for ambitious Tories, the question was not whether to criticize Europe, but how much. Europe resonates less with the wider electorate, however, and a year after Mr. Cameron became party leader in 2005, he suggested that colleagues stop “banging on” about Europe. Yet he won crucial support by promising to pull the Tories out of a center-right alliance in the European Parliament criticized by euroskeptics.
It was the first of several concessions intended to buy favor, peace or time from the euroskeptic right, leading to his decision to run for re-election last year on a pledge to hold an in-or-out referendum by the end of 2017. “The euroskeptics realized almost as soon as he took over how far Cameron could be pushed,” Professor Bale said, “although in 2005 I don’t think in their wildest dreams they thought he could be pushed as far as he has been.”
But Mr. Cameron, who would have trouble surviving in office if he loses, is more popular in the country than in his own party. He may be saved in the referendum by the Labour Party and the Scottish National Party, which favor remaining in Europe. But he has already said he will not run for another term and may find his party turning on him, even if Britons vote to stay.
The party was not always so split. When Mr. Patten entered Parliament in 1979, the “sensible, respectable thing to be was pro-European,” he said, while Tory critics of the bloc were “regarded as slightly eccentric.”
Not anymore. The European Union is larger, more diverse and poorer, while Britain, an economic basket case in 1975, is comparatively thriving. With the euro crisis, the migrant crisis and rising net immigration, Britons now seem more open to the argument that the bloc is “an analogue union in a digital age,” as Mr. Gove, the justice minister, has put it.
When Mr. Gove questioned the legal force of 
The pace of change within the party is underlined by the career of Philip Davies. When elected in 2005, “I was actually the only member of Parliament who would stand up and say we should leave the E.U.,” he recalled. “People would say all sorts of things about how we needed reform, to repatriate powers and assert British sovereignty, but they wouldn’t actually say the words, ‘We need to leave the E.U.’ ”
Professor Bale, however, says that hostility toward Europe now unites the Tories, even if they are divided over how to address the problem. “Really, we are talking about soft euroskeptics who think the European Union is bad, but think ‘We can manage it,’ ” Professor Bale said, “and others who think it is bad and the only alternative is to leave.”