
LONDON — You know these are scary times when “Richard III” starts to look like real life.
Audiences for the 
This rush of too-close-for-comfort déjà vu doesn’t come from the usual inferences that theatergoers have been encouraged to draw in recent years from “Richard III,” with its amoral title tyrant bringing to mind past and present dictators of Eastern Europe, Asia and Africa.
In Rupert Goold’s tightly focused new production — which stars a blood-freezing Ralph Fiennes and a beautifully battered Vanessa Redgrave — it’s not so much Richard who evokes shudders of amused and uneasy recognition but the world of fickle alliances and self-serving powermongers he inhabits. Richard and his rivals for the throne of England flatter, deceive, betray, woo and abandon one another at the speed of television sound bites.
Anyone familiar with the bruising governmental donnybrook occurring in the corridors of Parliament here in the weeks preceding and following the “Brexit” referendum may be forgiven for thinking that what’s happening onstage is just politics as usual. Even if high-echelon back-stabbing in London doesn’t involve real daggers anymore (at least not to my knowledge), it still racks up devastating collateral damage — including the faith of a reeling electorate in those who would control its future.
In 
Political relevance on the London stage — which, more than its New York counterpart, often finds itself in active and confrontational dialogue with its audiences — is assuming different but equally vital forms, sometimes as traditional as rethought classics, sometimes as immediate as social work. In recent weeks theater artists throughout Britain have created and imported works that deal specifically with the international immigration crisis and the potential impact of closed British borders.
Institutions including the 
This week the Southbank Center is presenting 
Other collisions of art and politics are more startling and fortuitous. That’s when current events overtake and infuse a play written recently, or centuries earlier. That’s true not only of the current “Richard III” but also of “The Spoils,” the 2015 American play, written by and starring Jesse Eisenberg, which opened this summer at 
“I knew Brexit was coming when we decided to do the play,” Mr. Eisenberg told me in an interview last week. “But I had no idea it would be the kind of watercooler conversation it became. I thought it would be some kind of internal parliamentary discussion, and it turned out to bring some, I would say, pretty upsetting dormant feelings into the public sphere.”
Mr. Eisenberg said that when he learned about the June 16 murder of the anti-Brexit Parliament member 
I enjoyed “The Spoils” as a lacerating satire (and as an examination of the kind of self-sabotaging jerk in which Mr. Eisenberg specializes) when I saw it in 
This summer has also seen revivals of classics that would appear destined to be charged with present-tense electricity yet fail to crackle. Two portraits of civil strife provide visual feasts that grab the eyes but not the heart: the 
On the other hand, I would never have expected this season’s family-courting blockbuster, 
In like manner, the 
Hope of any kind is missing in action by the end of the Almeida’s “Richard III,” despite the destruction of its title character and the ascendance of a new king (the Earl of Richmond who, embodied by Tom Canton, himself glistens with the fever of ambition). What’s most disturbing about this production — and its star performances — isn’t the bloody horrors perpetrated for political self-advancement.
Most devastating is the hollowness that pervades its second half, the sense that the glittering prizes that have been won at such costs aren’t worth it. As the dispossessed Queen Margaret, whose prophetic curses haunt the play, Ms. Redgrave is not the usual shrieking harridan but a bone-weary old woman, whose madness is steeped in a quiet, blisteringly bitter fatalism.
As for Mr. Fiennes’s Richard — who wears his deformed back with menacing defiance, as if it were some form of lethally loaded artillery — once he achieves the throne, he’s totally exhausted. Toward the play’s end he notes that he lacks “that alacrity of spirit” that once propelled him endlessly forward. This scooped-out shell of a man registers as an all-too-familiar figure during a season of British history to which London journalists — in an inevitable nod to this play’s opening line — are regularly calling “the summer of our discontent.”