
Four years ago, Deutsche Börse 
Now, the German market operator is willing to try another deal — this time with the London Stock Exchange.
The two exchanges said on Tuesday that they were in talks to combine in an all-stock deal, potentially uniting two of the biggest European market operators and creating a new giant in an industry that has rapidly consolidated.
A merger of the two would help London maintain strong financial ties with the Continent at a time when Britain’s role in Europe is being questioned. Britons will vote on June 23 whether to leave the European Union, often referred to as Brexit.
“It’s probably not a coincidence that you get this announcement when the future of Britain and the E.U. is uncertain,” said Nicolas Véron, a senior fellow at Bruegel, a research organization in Brussels. “It’s a way to develop a Pan-European dimension even in the event of a Brexit.”
Deutsche Börse previously sought mergers with the London Stock Exchange, in 2000 and again in 2005. But changes in the stock trading landscape mean the latest try may have a larger chance of success.
Traditional exchanges have lost substantial market share in recent years to electronic exchanges, notably Bats Global Markets and its European subsidiary, BATS Chi-X Europe. The competition puts pressure on the established exchanges to join forces, and it also helps address regulators’ concerns that Deutsche Börse and L.S.E. would have monopolistic power.
With most trading now electronic, exchanges are no longer as tied up with national identity as they used to be. Political leaders are less likely to interfere.
“It’s a very competitive space now where more consolidation needs to happen,” Mr. Véron said.
Already over the last decade, numerous market operators have pursued ever-bigger scale through mergers. Both of the big, old names in American exchanges, the N.Y.S.E. and the Nasdaq, are the products of mergers themselves: 
Under the terms of the proposed merger disclosed on Tuesday, shareholders in the LS.E. would receive 0.4421 of a new share in the combined company for every L.S.E. share they own. Their counterparts at Deutsche Börse would receive one share of the new company for each of their shares, giving them 54.4 percent of the united market operator over all.
The new company’s board would be evenly divided between directors of each of the two companies.
Shares of the L.S.E. surged nearly 14 percent in Tuesday trading in London. In Frankfurt, shares of Deutsche Börse were up 3.2 percent.
“The boards believe that the potential merger would represent a compelling opportunity for both companies to strengthen each other in an industry-defining combination, creating a leading European-based global markets infrastructure group,” the two said in a joint regulatory statement.
The two are no strangers to deal-making. Even after Deutsche Börse failed to merge with the N.Y.S.E. — clearing the path for the Big Board to sell itself to the IntercontinentalExchange — it has struck a number of acquisitions.
The L.S.E. has played both acquirer and potential target, not least with Deutsche Börse itself. The 
Other exchange operators, including OMX and Nasdaq, also made bids for the L.S.E. that the British company rejected.
Instead, the L.S.E. has made acquisitions like those of Borsa Italiana of Milan and Russell Investments, the owner of the Russell stock market indexes. The London exchange also sought to acquire TMX, the parent of the Toronto stock exchange, though that deal was scuttled by investors in the Canadian company.
Robey Warshaw is advising the L.S.E., while Perella Weinberg Partners is advising Deutsche Börse.