
LONDON — Acknowledging bitter divisions within his Conservative Party and his cabinet over 
Mr. Cameron favors remaining in the European Union if he can get some relatively modest changes to his nation’s relationship with Brussels, in particular protection for countries not using the euro and some restrictions on benefits for new immigrants who come to work in Britain.
But some of his key cabinet ministers and other party figures, including Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond, Home Secretary Theresa May and Mayor Boris Johnson of London, are known to have doubts about Britain’s membership in the bloc, although they have remained noncommittal about their positions on the referendum.
Three additional ministers, Iain Duncan Smith, the work and pensions secretary and a former party leader; Theresa Villiers, the Northern Ireland secretary; and Chris Grayling, the leader of the House of Commons, are believed to oppose British membership in the union and are said to have threatened to resign if Mr. Cameron required that his entire cabinet speak with one voice on the issue.
Addressing the House of Commons, where he holds a majority by only 12 seats, Mr. Cameron said that after he finishes his negotiations with his European Union partners over a new relationship for Britain with the bloc, “there will be a clear government position,” which is expected to favor continued membership.
“But it will be open to individual ministers to take a different personal position while remaining part of the government,” he said.
An aide to Mr. Cameron who was not authorized to speak publicly said the prime minister’s decision recognized “the political reality within the Conservative Party,” where a significant minority of lawmakers favors Britain’s exit from the union. Mr. Cameron will require government discipline until he has finished his negotiations with European partners, but will then allow ministers to speak their minds.
But Mr. Cameron’s decision goes against the advice of some prominent Conservatives, including former Prime Minister John Major and Michael Heseltine, a former government minister, that he should insist upon the usual principle of collective responsibility.
If senior ministers oppose the government’s position, it could be harder for Mr. Cameron to persuade the country to vote to stay in the European Union — and could give more credibility to those favoring a British exit. It could also open a more visible rivalry within the party for a successor to Mr. Cameron, who has vowed not to run for a third term. Possible candidates like Ms. May and Mr. Johnson may have to make a difficult choice on their best path to Downing Street, since George Osborne, the chancellor of the Exchequer and a likely contender to succeed Mr. Cameron, opposes leaving the European Union.
Government officials have been hinting strongly that after another European Union summit meeting in mid-February, Mr. Cameron will call the referendum as early as June or July, so that the campaign is affected by another summer of chaotic migration from the Middle East into Europe. Mr. Cameron has pledged to hold the referendum by the end of 2017.
Mr. Cameron is following the lead of Harold Wilson, a Labour prime minister, who also allowed his cabinet their personal views before Britain’s previous referendum, in 1975, on whether to stay in what was then the European Economic Community. This time, Labour is expected to favor remaining within the European Union, despite the ambivalence of its new leader, Jeremy Corbyn, who voted to leave in 1975.
Speaking in Parliament on Tuesday, Mr. Corbyn accused Mr. Cameron of “isolating Britain” within the European Union and of putting the “politics of his own party” above the national interest.
Stephen Gethins, who speaks for the Scottish National Party on European issues, said that “even David Cameron now has zero confidence in his ability to negotiate a deal on Europe that his own cabinet ministers can get behind — let alone the wider Tory Party.” He added, “This might be the right decision for the Tories, but it’s the wrong decision for the country.”
While Mr. Cameron tried to tend to his divided party, Mr. Corbyn, facing deep ideological splits with Labour, was trying to finish a shuffle of his own shadow cabinet only four months after forming it. Mr. Corbyn, who has been driving his party further to the left, is particularly concerned that his shadow defense minister, Maria Eagle, disagrees with him publicly on one of the biggest national security issues: whether to renew Britain’s independent, submarine-based nuclear deterrent. Ms. Eagle supports maintaining 
She is expected to move to a different position within Mr. Corbyn’s leadership ranks.
Ahead of any formal announcement, Michael Dugher, who spoke for Labour on culture issues and who had been a blunt critic of some supporters of the party leader, said that he had been dismissed by Mr. Corbyn.
Mr. Dugher, who is widely seen as an effective communicator — particularly with traditional Labour voters in the north of the country — announced his own departure on Twitter, saying: “Just been sacked by Jeremy Corbyn. I wished him a happy new year.” He told the BBC he had “paid the price” for defending shadow cabinet colleagues “being systematically trashed, in terms of their reputations, in their newspapers by people in the employment of Jeremy Corbyn.”
Mr. Corbyn is reported to be backing away from a wholesale purge of critics from his shadow cabinet, given that many of Labour’s members of Parliament oppose him on issues like the nuclear deterrent and his stance against the decision to bomb Islamic State targets in Syria and Iraq.
While he has strong critics within the party, Mr. Corbyn’s position seems secure for now, and he is reported to think that his best strategy is to remove his critics more slowly to avoid large-scale resignations from the moderates within his own shadow cabinet.