
LONDON — Barclays, the British bank, said on Friday that its profit had fallen 41 percent as it accelerated its plans to sell or close businesses and assets that it no longer considered crucial to its strategy.
James E. Staley, the Barclays chief executive, has said that disposing of those noncore businesses was a key to unlocking the earnings potential of the bank.
Since joining the bank in December, Mr. Staley has sped up those moves and has been focusing the bank’s strategy on two divisions: the British consumer bank and the corporate and investment bank.
For the three months that ended June 30, Barclays 
“The strategy remains the right one, in our view,” Mr. Staley said during a conference call with journalists. “Our strategy is anchored on the belief that you want to be a large diversified financial institution because we’re not going to escape the volatility that you have in economic cycles. That is particularly noteworthy as we came out of the ‘Brexit’ vote.“
Mr. Staley said the bank saw “no reason” to adjust its strategy or change the pace of its delivery, in light of the outcome of the June 23 referendum to leave the European Union, a departure known as Brexit.
Uncertainty about the economic effect of Britain’s decision to leave the bloc has roiled the financial markets and hit bank stocks particularly hard across Europe.
Barclays shares fell almost 22 percent in London between the vote and Thursday’s close. But its shares were up 6 percent, at 155.35 pence, in morning trading in London on Friday.
Since the British vote, the Bank of England has strongly signaled that economic pressures could prompt it to cut interest rates as soon as next month.
And, Lloyds Banking Group, a British banking rival, said on Thursday that it 
Barclays said that its operating income, which is similar to revenue in the United States, declined 10 percent, to £5.48 billion, in the second quarter, from £6.07 billion in the period last year. Operating expenses were down 14 percent in the quarter, to £3.87 billion.
Barclays’ noncore businesses reported a loss of £887 million in the second quarter, compared with a loss of £324 million a year earlier.
During the quarter, Barclays took a one-time loss of £182 million with the restructuring of a portfolio of loans made to the local authorities in Britain.
Barclays also recognized an impairment of £372 million related to its consumer banking, life-insurance and wealth and investment management operations in France.
The bank said in April that it 
A sale would complete Barclays’ exit from retail banking in continental Europe. It has sold operations in Italy, Portugal and Spain in the past year.
Mr. Staley said on Friday that the bank expected the drag of the noncore business on its expenses to fall significantly in 2017 as it continued to sell and close operations.
Mr. Staley added that he expected expenses from its noncore business to be in the range of £400 million to £500 million in 2017. By comparison, the estimated expense cost from the noncore division this year is £1.6 billion, he said.
Barclays also is in the process of 
In May, Barclays 
“Given the strong level of interest in the asset, we have increased confidence in our ability to deconsolidate Africa,” Mr. Staley said.
In its corporate and investment bank, profit declined 15 percent, to £1.17 billion, in the second quarter, from £1.38 billion in the period last year.
The British consumer bank reported a profit of £141 million in the quarter, compared with a loss of £174 million in the second quarter of 2015.