
GABCIKOVO, Slovakia — Since 
Now 46, Mr. Hirjak has a wood products company and just bought a small sawmill in Gabcikovo. He has benefited from the bloc’s free movement of travel, goods and labor.
“Young people who are clever can travel and work abroad, and come back or not, and as for the economy, we can export,” he said. “We wouldn’t survive otherwise.”
He ought to be a cheerleader for the European Union, but he is ambivalent at best. And his ambivalence speaks to a fundamental and growing problem for the union. Even in countries that have prospered, public sentiment is steadily shifting against Brussels.
The relatively moderate Slovaks are hardly immune from the right-wing, nationalist and populist forces threatening to unravel the European Union. Slovakia is one of the four so-called Visegrad countries, along with Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic. Slovaks are showing the same doubts about the future of Europe as the others, and showing some of the same vulnerabilities to right-wing nationalism — and Moscow’s siren song.
Over schnitzel, pilsner and cherry compote, Mr. Hirjak talked about how he was troubled by the migrant crisis and aid to richer countries in the eurozone, like Greece. Slovaks are trying to adjust to the risks of capitalism, “but now the E.U. is trying to do something in between,” he said. “It’s trying to support countries that are lazy, like Greece. Why should we take care of them? We’re poor, a lot poorer than they are.”
His colleague Ivan Feik, 47, said that “with Europe so divided, it’s complicated. Everyone wants something different. Everyone thinks how best to survive and looks only at what the E.U. can offer them.”
As for the refugees, Mr. Feik said: “Muslims are a big unknown to us, so people are more worried. As long as the refugees are Christian, it’s no problem.” Diversity in Europe can work over time “with proper management and regulations,” he said, “but it can go wrong with too many different kinds of people. If we’re not careful, with all the divisions, we’ll end up with nothing.”
Gabcikovo, a drab town on the Hungarian border, is where 
The government decided to use a rundown technical school to temporarily house migrants seeking asylum in Austria as they poured in from Hungary, which took a tough line against them. Ban Ki-moon, the United Nations secretary general, visited a year ago to urge compassion, but that was, and remains, in short supply.
Slovakia, like other Visegrad countries, rejected the demands of Brussels to take even a small quota of refugees, breaking a traditional consensus of solidarity among member states of the European Union.
“The European Union is asking too much from us,” said Albina Schweigerova, 59, a pharmaceutical worker. “They should better help those here who need it, and not the outsiders,” she said. “I didn’t want the refugees here; they take our money but don’t share our values.”
On the surface, the Slovaks should be content. Since joining the European Union more than 12 years ago, Slovakia now produces more cars per capita than any country in the world, uses the euro and receives the most European Union development aid per capita. Almost 10 percent of its labor force works in other union countries, and its businesses export freely throughout the bloc. As such, Slovakia is an ideal testing ground for the developing disaffection toward Brussels and liberal elites. If those attitudes can grow and fester there, analysts say, then no country is immune.
The issues tearing at Europe are well documented: Chronically low growth; an influx of migrants; Britain’s vote to leave the bloc; the growing strength of anti-European Union parties; and continuing meddling from a resurgent, revanchist Russia, which seeks to undermine confidence in both NATO and the European Union.
“When we joined the European Union and later the euro, everything was great,” said Milan Nic, research director of Globsec, a policy research institute in Bratislava. “But now our confidence is shaken. The E.U. is seen as not delivering, as incomprehensible, from a different era, not from today.”
Daniel Milo, a colleague at Globsec, said that the British vote to withdraw, or Brexit, had a jarring effect. “Brexit has created a precedent, a huge stimulus to those who want to leave the European Union,” he said. “There’s a lot of soul searching now, with the rise of euroskepticism and the use of Brexit by other forces,” especially by 
The party is anti-immigrant, anti-Brussels, anti-NATO and anti-Roma, and in the March elections it won 14 seats in Parliament, largely in poorer, more rural areas. Mr. Kotleba, who has been trying to edge away from his past neo-Nazi ties, started a campaign for a referendum on membership in both NATO and the European Union, although it is considered unlikely to get the 350,000 signatures required, despite support from pro-Russian websites.
In response to the growing pressure, 
“Fico is a nationalist populist now, more anti-U.S. and pro-Russia, playing off Brussels,” said Miroslav Beblavy, 39, an opposition member of Parliament. “Fico will not let himself be outflanked by the populists.”
“We signed up for European values of liberal democracy, rule of law, transparency and the upholding of human rights, but we did not internalize them,” Mr. Milo said. “They are still seen as something foreign or alien to our national character.”
Slovakia and the Czech Republic are “moving in the same direction as Poland and Hungary,” he said. Russia, Mr. Milo added, “is very good at playing on these sentiments in this whole region.”
For those “disquieted by this liberal world,” Mr. Beblavy said, “Russia is seen as the only bulwark of traditional values.”
Olga Gyarfasova, a sociologist at Comenius University and the Institute for Public Affairs, said that about 200,000 Slovaks, as much as 10 percent of the labor force, are working in other European Union countries, and that Eurobarometer opinion polls show that a small majority of Slovaks still consider membership a “good thing,” but that only 30 percent feel the same about NATO.
The fall in support has been rapid. While 68 percent of Slovaks backed membership in union in 2010, the figure in February was only 52 percent. While 14 percent are against it, 30 percent think membership is neither good nor bad.
While Slovakia is relatively supportive of the European Union, it is the most Russian leaning and anti-American country in the region, with 
“The problem is that the E.U. is only understood to be delivering benefits, not as sharing common problems,” Ms. Gyarfasova said. “Our Visegrad politicians take all the credit for the benefits of the E.U. and blame all their problems on Brussels.”
In Europe as a whole, “there is something fundamental happening to representative democracy as we’ve known it for a century,” she said. “There is the hollowing out and backsliding of democracy, and trust toward democratic institutions is eroding.”
The young, as ever, are more optimistic and still largely pro-European. At the train station in Bratislava, the capital, Lukas Varga, 19, said he wanted to travel and study abroad. “Though I disagree with some things the E.U. does, I want to stay in,” he said.
His friend Veronika Kvarkova, 18, wants to become a business executive. “Now I can travel, study, learn English, use the same currency,” she said.
But the obligations of the bloc are troubling, even to them. “We can’t accept everyone from the Middle East but we should help,” Mr. Varga said. “If it’s only people fleeing war, fine, but then they should go home again.”
Thomas Funtik, 20, an economics student in Brno, said that “countries like Slovakia need the European Union more than Britain does. We need it to work and for our companies to expand.”
But he and others oppose aid to Greece. “We should help with better investments and not just give them fat pensions,” Mr. Funtik said.