
Diego Della Valle is the 62-year-old billionaire who not only manages but is instantly identifiable with the brands he owns. Unlike his closest peers, François-Henri Pinault of Kering, or Bernard Arnault of LVMH, Della Valle has an unexpected, dandyish flair: He habitually sports upturned shirt collars and a wide-spread scarf in place of a tie, and employs not one but two tailors (Lattini for his sport jackets, Caraceni for his suits) though I’ve most often seen him combine his Caraceni jackets with Levis. His gray hair is swept back from his high forehead, his horn-rimmed spectacles seem well-considered. He is a man who likes fashion, wears it, buys some — and sells lots.
The Tod’s Group, over which Della Valle presides, is one of fashion’s behemoths. It includes the Italian-based labels Hogan and Fay, the French footwear brand Roger Vivier and the house of Schiaparelli, which was revived a few years ago. Sales in the first half of 2016 totaled in excess of half a billion dollars — even taking into account a 3.4 percent drop over the previous year.
While Della Valle isn’t a designer, his handwriting is all over his fashion empire. The brands all have their own design teams, but the biggest presence is Della Valle’s own. Nowhere is that truer than Tod’s, the label he founded in 1978. In fact, although Della Valle’s father, Dorino Della Valle, established the family firm in the late 1920s, Tod’s was created because Diego wanted something to call his own.
Tod’s is just that: Earlier this year, Alessandra Facchinetti, formerly of both Gucci and Valentino, stepped down as creative director. Della Valle says he is in no rush to appoint a replacement. After all, it was the adjuncts to Facchinetti’s fashion design that tended to attract the most attention — a presentation choreographed by the performance artist Vanessa Beecroft, for example, staged in the entrance lobby to Facchinetti’s final show in February, where models were wrapped in pinned skins of leather. It felt very Della Valle. That’s because, in conversation, he constantly references the importance of handicraft and the notion of “Made In Italy,” and his own collection of contemporary art is impressive. He frequents the art dealer Lia Rumma in Milan, whose gallery represents Beecroft alongside Marina Abramovic, Anselm Kiefer and Gino de Dominicis. Della Valle loves art, and craft.
Linking back to Beecroft’s work — to the idea of leather as skin, and making an art out of it — this fall Tod’s has unusually employed a tattoo artist named Saira Hunjan to figure out a way of tattooing the label’s “Double-T” bag with a design of a Chinese dragon with a lion’s head. Della Valle invites me to see her work live. “Do you have?” asked Della Valle, gesturing at the buzzing tattoo needle. I do not. (He doesn’t either, in case you wondered.)
Della Valle and I met on a recent afternoon in London, where the Tod’s boutique has been renovated and expanded, and where Hunjan is plying her wares to link Tod’s shops to Tod’s crafts. For the 26th richest man in Italy, London inevitably brings up a discussion of Brexit. London, he says, is an important city for culture and for commerce, for him. And Brexit isn’t all bad. “The pound is less strong than before — for us the business grows. More, more than before. For us, it is good. For business. For the shops it is very good,” Della Valle shrugs. “My personal opinion, for England it was better to stay. Maybe some people don’t understand the risk. They vote to protest the politicians who do nothing; but that maybe will change the future of this country.”
Della Valle is never shy of voicing a political opinion: He has been an outspoken opponent of fellow Italian billionaire and four-time prime minister Silvio Berlusconi, while rumors persist that Della Valle himself may enter politics. Back in 2015, the Italian weekly newsmagazine L’Espresso reported that he had registered a logo proclaiming “Noi italiani [We Italians]” to the trademark office of the country’s Ministry of Economic Development, for categories related to a political party. If he turned down his collar and grabbed a tie, Della Valle would very much look the part.
Draw him out on the subject of our current troubled times, and Della Valle easily and eloquently expounds. “Around the world, there is a moment of confusion,” he says. “In Italy, there’s the referendum,” he continues, referring to the referendum to the Italian Constitution to transform the Senate of the Republic into a “Senate of Regions. “In Germany, France, the elections. And the danger of the American election.” He taps my iPhone, recording our conversation. “This instrument changes everything. It gives you a free position, but at the same time out of any control.” Della Valle sighs. “It’s like a pistol. Before, people would go to the bar, and say” — he hurls an expletive and gestures at the television. “That was 10 people. Now it’s 20 million!” He taps the iPhone again, ruefully.
Della Valle isn’t so keen to harness these events for political gain. At least, not yet. But Tod’s did enlist the photogenic tabloid favorite Suki Waterhouse to feature in a short film to promote their tattooed handbags. They’re hoping it will be a hit on Instagram.