
LONDON — Thursday night, on the eve of London Fashion Week, the British fashion world came to an opulent suite of rooms with gilded mirrors and chandeliers, Champagne and canapés. Christopher Bailey was there, chatting with fellow designers Mary Katrantzou and Roksanda Ilincic. Natalie Massenet and Anya Hindmarch, Joan Burstein, Vivienne Westwood and Carmen Busquets all hovered close by.
So far, so fashion week.
But this was no ordinary room, and it was no ordinary function. The party was at 10 Downing Street. And the host — sporting a crisp, oversize white shirt from a collaboration by the London-based duo Palmer Harding and the department store John Lewis, and some Russell & Bromley lip-motif kitten heels — was Theresa May, the country’s new prime minister.
“British fashion is of huge importance to our country,” Mrs. May said, especially the “fashion apprentices, scholarship winners and graduate trainees who are the future of British fashion,” who were also invited to the event. She also noted that the British fashion industry’s contribution to the national economy had increased 8 percent in the 12 months ending in June, to 28 billion pounds, or $37 billion, according to the research firm Oxford Economics. And the sector generates almost 900,000 jobs.
“The government I lead will do everything we can,” she continued, “including providing the right investment in training and skills, to help everyone, whatever people’s backgrounds, to go as far as their talents can take them.”
Though previous governments have thrown their support behind the fashion industry (Samantha Cameron, wife of the former Prime Minister David Cameron, was an active patron, and returned to her former residence to attend the party Thursday night), Mrs. May’s comments were an implicit acknowledgment that, following Britain’s 
For decades the country, and London in particular, have been perceived as a melting pot of talent, both from home and abroad. Can the city maintain that reputation?
“From our homegrown start-ups to international fashion houses — every business in the creative industry will play a major role in ensuring we make a success of Brexit,” Mrs. May said in a statement released later. (She did not mention the vote at the cocktail party.) “By taking advantage of the opportunities that leaving the E.U. gives us and playing to our strengths as a great trading nation — we can build a fairer economy that works for all, not just the privileged few.”
Not that everyone is quite so convinced. In July, Burberry suspended its plans for a trench coat factory in the north of England while it assessed the impact of the vote. This month, the Victoria & Albert Museum in London confirmed that Martin Roth, its German director, 
“It is fair to say that the majority of London’s fashion industry were not in favor of Brexit,” Caroline Rush, chief executive of the British Fashion Council, said in an interview. “So the priority for us since has been to meet with as many people here as possible to hear concerns and give them access to advice around potential challenges like intellectual property regulations, trading tariffs and visas.”
The council, Ms. Rush added, has joined forces with other arts-based industry bodies to communicate with the government in a unified voice.
Lulu Kennedy, the founder of the fashion incubator Fashion East, suggested that while her organization’s criteria traditionally required a candidate to have a business based in Britain, she now would be willing to consider nonresidents.
And Ms. Katrantzou, a Greek who started her business in London after graduating from the Central Saint Martins master’s program in 2009, and who was scheduled to show her latest collection on Sunday, noted that “Only 15 percent of the employees in my company are British — that says a lot about the type of people we can attract by being in London.’’
“They all have diverse upbringings and perspectives, and came to the city to be part of and inspired by its vibrant arts scene,’’ she said. “I chose to live and work in London precisely because it is such a cultural magnet for creatives, and in proximity to the schools and established brands. Will future designers get that now?”
Leaders of the city’s art and design schools emphasize that the answer to Ms. Katrantzou’s question is yes — and say that they are working closely with the office of the London mayor, Sadiq Khan, to secure the best possible outcome from a Brexit. Nigel Carrington, the vice chancellor of University of the Arts London, which includes Central Saint Martins, said that the schools had told current students they would be able to stay in the country, and that they have been evaluating the potential impact on foreign students’ fees and the flow of graduate talent. (Historically, students from European Union members have paid the same fees as British students.)
Paul Thompson, the rector of the Royal College of Art, said that London’s position as a hub of creativity was not just based on Britain’s membership in the European Union.
“There are plenty of global cities that aren’t part of the E.U. which are also great capitals of culture and finance,” Mr. Thompson pointed out. “The top design talent won’t want to leave London because it still has the best education prospects and broadest spectrum of specialist sectors in once place.”
Besides, he said, there were other factors threatening the city’s artistic fabric, such as the eye-watering costs of living. “Brexit isn’t the biggest risk to London’s position in the hearts and minds of creatives,’’ he said. “It is the expense of living here. Many artists and designers are now leaving, and rundown seaside towns like Margate and Hastings are experiencing a real renaissance. That is bad for London perhaps, but good for Britain over all.”
Sotheby’s, for its part, will hold its annual celebratory “Made in Britain” sale on Sept. 28, with items ranging from Swinging Sixties photographs and colorful postwar canvases to Young British Artist works by Damien Hirst. Alex Branczik, Sotheby’s head of contemporary art for Europe, said the auction house was expecting its best results yet.
“There is a great deal of change and uncertainty at the moment — for every sector,” he said. “But the city occupies a unique and powerful place in the creative mind, and in the minds of the world’s collectors. I feel bullish that for now, that position is here to stay.”
And back at 10 Downing Street, Ms. Massenet was (unsurprisingly) equally upbeat, pointing out that she started her online fashion site Net-a-Porter in 2000, in the depths of the fallout from the first dot-com bubble.
“There have been many booms and busts over the decades,” she said. “But London fashion and the creative industries have endured — indeed, prospered even — in difficult times.”
And so the long catwalk to the future begins.