
LONDON — 
As he handed over the mantle on Friday, Mr. Farage said that he planned to travel across the Continent this fall and help “democracy movements” that want to leave the European Union. Over the summer, he highlighted polls in the Czech Republic, Denmark, Italy and the Netherlands that showed backing for referendums, and said Britain had become a 
Mr. Farage, who spent his political career pushing for Britain to quit the European Union, said that the “Brexit” vote was a “fairy tale come true,” and credited UKIP with causing an “earthquake” in British politics.
His departure, however, comes with 
Though it holds just one seat in Britain’s 650-member House of Commons, UKIP has had outsize influence on British politics in recent years. It got 13 percent of the vote in the 2015 general election, and its years of pressure on the political right wing of the Conservative Party was decisive in forcing former Prime Minister David Cameron to call the referendum on Britain’s membership in the European Union.
Enter Ms. James, a relative unknown in British national politics.
Ms. James, who founded an international consultancy focusing on the health care sector, is the first woman to lead UKIP. A member of the European Parliament since 2014, she is considered an able communicator who has imbibed Mr. Farage’s mix of anti-European populism and feel-good nationalism. She has 
She is also the latest woman to lead a far-right party in Europe, following in the steps of 
Speaking after her victory was announced Friday at UKIP’s party conference in the seaside resort of Bournemouth, Ms. James stressed that her priority was to assure that the government delivered on its promise to follow through with Britain’s exit from the European Union.
She called on Prime Minister Theresa May to stop stalling and to begin the two-year process of negotiating Britain’s departure. Mrs. May has said she will not invoke it until next year.
“Stop the faff, stop the fudge, get on with it,” she said, addressing Mrs. May by name and referring to those who campaigned in favor of Britain remaining in the bloc as “Remainiacs.”
“We must fight against Brexit Lite,” she said.
Ms. James indicated she would take a tough stance on immigration, stressing that Britain must only accept immigrants with the “expertise and skills and social values that this country wants.” In 2013, she called for a temporary brake on immigration to stop Romanians from coming to Britain and committing crimes. (She later apologized saying that she had not meant to generalize “against every single individual born with a Romanian passport.”)
Some critics, however, questioned whether Ms. James has the necessary leadership skills to repurpose and unify UKIP after she failed to turn up to any of the party’s dozen leadership campaign events, instead opting for her own events which she could stage-manage.
Whether she can fill the void left by Mr. Farage, however, is an open question.
Ms. James suggested on Friday that she might prove to be less blunt than Mr. Farage, who famously 
She said she hoped Mr. Farage would continue to be a “thorn” in the European Union’s “backside.”
But, she noted, she will not be “Nigel Farage Lite.”