
LONDON — She is known in the British civil service as Theresa May, or Maybe Not. But after months in which she has provided little clue as to how she intends to negotiate Britain’s exit from the European Union, Mrs. May could soon have a harder time dodging the question.
Mrs. May, the surprising successor as prime minister to David Cameron, who said a day after losing the June referendum on membership in the bloc that he 
Mrs. May got through the summer by saying, “Brexit means Brexit,” a gnomic statement that raised countless questions; left cabinet ministers trying to shape the debate to their own, often diverging, views; and annoyed her counterparts in Europe, who are eager to get on with the negotiations.
The leaders of the 27 other European Union nations will meet on Friday in Bratislava, Slovakia, but Mrs. May has been conspicuously excluded from the gathering, intended to begin discussing the shape and direction of the bloc after a British exit. Like much of Britain, the European leaders are still trying to discern her priorities and to size up her approach to carrying out a historic and complex rupture.
transcript
SOUNDBITE (English) Angus Robertson, the Scottish National Party’s Westminster Group Leader:

“Millions of people from across the United Kingdom depend on freedom of movement across the EU for business and for pleasure; they face the prospect of having to apply and possibly pay for visas. Is the prime minister in favor of protecting visa-free travel? Yes or No?”


SOUNDBITE (English) Theresa May, UK Prime Minister:


“There was a very clear message from the British people at the time of the referendum vote on June 23, that they wanted to see an end to free movement as it operated, they want to see control of the movement of people from the European Union into the UK, and that’s what we will deliver.”
If Mrs. May has signaled any strategy, it is to play for time, giving her government — well stocked with members who were among the most prominent supporters of an exit — a chance to hash out a negotiating position, and perhaps to allow the political passions of the spring and summer to subside somewhat. Despite pressure from Brussels to move quickly, she has said that Britain will not invoke 
The choices ahead are extremely complex and contentious, and for now, Mrs. May is letting various members of her cabinet set their own priorities, while emphasizing that the government — namely, she — has not yet taken official positions. She has no intention, she told Parliament, of giving “a running commentary” of the negotiations.
In her cabinet, she put prominent advocates of leaving the European Union in central positions to manage that exit: 
Mrs. May then set them, and some of their more pro-European colleagues, against one another. They have been fighting over turf, and over how many Foreign Office staff members could be sent to work at the other ministries. And she ruled that all three should share the use of 
While Mrs. May has remained nearly mute on the subject of the path leading to a British exit, her ministers have managed to inject their views into the public debate. Mr. Johnson, for one, wrote her a “private” memo setting out his position, which was 
transcript
SOT MAY 1168 BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND, UK (JULY 11, 2016): “we will make Britain a country that works for everyone.”

VO:Theresa May was really an incredible candidate left in the race, but the speed with which she was installed was very surprising.

I’m Stephen Castle, a London correspondent for The New York Times

SOT CONSERVATIVE LEADER OF THE HOUSE OF COMMONS, BREXITEER WHO NOW SUPPORTS THERESA MAY, CHRIS GRAYLING - 1190 - JULY 11, 2016 LONDON
:“We all know that Theresa will do everything she can to equip our country for the challenges that lie ahead.”

 The general consensus at the highest level of the Conservative party is that there were needed some swift actions to end the uncertainty. 

SOT Theresa May: “I’ve been Home Secretary for six years now...” 

VO: Theresa May is known as a very tough operator. In fact, the homeland business has been described as  

SOT May 1172 -  “Taking control is about making sure that our voice is heard and that it counts. “O    

VO: Theresa May is the second female PM that Britain had. The first was Margaret Thatcher.

SOT MAY - Women in the World/Youtube: ” - Was she influential on you? - I’m not someone who has a role model.”

VO: She’s a conservative and generally regarded as extremely methodical, effective and a pretty good negotiator.

SOT MAY: 1172 As we look at issues like the movement of illegal firearms across Europe, the sharing of criminal records, reducing the pull factors that is leading my people to want to migrate into Europe, I am very clear that the United Kingdom can take a lead. 

VO: As a new prime minister, Theresa May will have a plausible control over the whole range of government including economics and foreign policy, 2 areas she’s never really dealt with in much detail.

As a conservative politician, she has a big drop on her hands, because personally Thesera May didn’t vote to leave the E.U.

SOT MAY on June 15, 2016 BBC [0.25]: 
“We’d be more secure and safe inside the E.U.”

VO: But she now has the job of delivering Brexit. 

SOT 4180 MAY The country voted to leave the European Union and it’s the duty of the government and —- parliament to make sure we do just that.

VO: She said Brexit means Brexit, but no one knows what it really means. 

VOXPOP: AMY ROSS LONDON July 11 - 1190:
Hopefully that will mean that she’s able to negotiate the best position for us.

SOT: (German) BAADER BANK HEAD OF CAPITAL MARKETS ANALYSIS, ROBERT HALVER 2134 FRANKFURT, GERMANY (JULY 12, 2016) 
There are connections between Brussels and London, which one can’t cut off. This means, the Britons somehow remain with us even if they leave.”

VO: So she is going to have to define how much control Britain has over immigration and how much access it has to european markets.  

SOT 1158 MAY: “Brexit means Brexit and we are going to make a success of it. 

END
In it, Mr. Johnson, reflecting concern among campaigners from the “Leave” camp that Mrs. May would water down their victory by negotiating a less-than-full break from Brussels, laid down four red lines: control over immigration from European Union countries, an end to British contributions to the European budget, ceasing the application of European legislation to Britain, and removing the country from the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice.
Mr. Johnson has also thrown his support behind a new lobbying group, Change Britain, introduced over the weekend and intended to maintain pressure on the prime minister to have what is known as a “hard exit” from the European Union, with control over immigration and no attempt to bargain with it to preserve duty-free access to the single European market of 500 million people. Other supporters include prominent Conservatives like 
At some point, Mrs. May’s studied silence risks creating a leadership vacuum or feeding into the economic uncertainty that has hung over Britain since the referendum. The most fundamental decision may be how much to prioritize control over immigration, one of the clear demands from the referendum, and ending the freedom of movement and labor that membership in the European Union requires.
While those favoring a British departure promised during the referendum campaign that immigration could be controlled and that Britain could retain access to the single market, agreement by the other 27 countries is nearly inconceivable, as it would overthrow one of the basic tenets of the bloc: that market access and freedom of movement are inextricably linked.
While reclaiming control over the nation’s borders seems to be the priority for many of the voters who favored leaving the bloc, many business interests in Britain — not least the financial services industry in the City of London and big manufacturers — want to retain access to the single market.
Britain has started the clock on leaving the European Union, and will be out of the bloc by March 2019. Here is how “Brexit” has affected business so far.
That trade-off, and the degree to which Britain would be willing to make other concessions to Europe to retain market access, is likely to be the trickiest issue confronting Ms. May. Mr. Johnson aside, would Britain be willing to pay into the European Union budget as a nonmember, 
When Mr. Davis told the House of Commons this month that it was “very improbable” that Britain would remain in the single market, Mrs. May, through her spokeswoman, chided him and said he was only “setting out his opinion.”
“The prime minister’s view is that we should be ambitious and go after the best deal we can,” said the spokeswoman, Helen Bower.
Britain’s financial sector, which represents 10 percent of gross domestic product, wants to preserve “passporting rights,” the ability to offer services throughout the rest of the bloc, including in the 19 countries that use the euro. The chancellor of the Exchequer, Philip Hammond, who backed remaining in the European Union, also wants to preserve passporting rights.
But French officials like 
In an interview in London, Mr. Macron said that financial institutions based in Britain must be prevented from selling their services in the eurozone after the country leaves the European Union. Passporting is an integral part of the single market, he said, and “should not be seen as a technical issue but a matter of sovereignty.”
He continued: “We have the eurozone. Could we accept to be cleared, regulated and de facto have inflows and outflows from a country that has decided to leave the E.U.? For me, definitely not.”
In the meantime, Mrs. May and her country are getting a taste of what it will mean to be outside Europe. While the summit meeting of the other European Union leaders on Friday in Bratislava is expected to produce little of substance, its theme is “security,” including borders, migration, terrorism and further defense cooperation. These are issues in which Britain, still a full member of the European Union, has a considerable interest and stake.
How much cooperation will Britain after its departure want or expect from the European Union on such matters as policing, intelligence sharing, arrest warrants, extradition?
Mrs. May, Britain’s home secretary for six years, will have to make some choices there, as well.