
LONDON — Never mind Britain’s tortuous decision to leave the European Union. Lately, another matter of state has been preoccupying Britons across the realm: a $1,250 pair of “desert khaki” leather pants.
The uproar, referred to as “
Rather than focusing on the uncharacteristically personal reflections Mrs. May, 60, revealed in the article about being the only child of a clergyman, or her sleepless nights over 
“I don’t have leather trousers. I don’t think I’ve ever spent that much on anything, apart from my wedding dress,” Nicky Morgan, a former education secretary, told The Times of London, adding that Mrs. May’s sartorial choice had been “noticed and discussed” in the Conservative Party she leads.
Mrs. Morgan, 
Soon, 
Mrs. May’s office added to the intrigue by refusing to be drawn into a debate over whether the now-famous garment had been purchased with a discount card. Asked on a flight to Bahrain whether the trousers could signal that she was out of touch with the common voter, Mrs. May extolled “the importance of a country that works for everyone.”
At a time of working-class revolt on both sides of the Atlantic, the accusations of elitism have been particularly awkward for Mrs. May. An Oxford-educated former home secretary, she has railed against the establishment and promised to champion Britons who are “just about managing,” people she referred to as “
“Glad 
“Job seekers allowance for a year is £3796. One pair of Theresa May Trousers £1000. So glad she is in touch with the common people,” 
One 
For all the tut-tutting, many commentators of both sexes argued that Mrs. May was the victim of a double standard, asking whether anyone would question the cost of her trousers if she were a man, or 
After all, President-elect Donald J. Trump had been able to fashion himself as a working-class hero despite his luxurious Brioni suits, which can cost as much as $17,000. Mrs. May’s predecessor, David Cameron, who attended an elite boarding school, meanwhile, sometimes wore made-to-measure suits from Richard James, estimated at more than $4,000. Conversely, the Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn has been 
The online fashion editor of The Guardian, 
“
Mrs. Clinton was also criticized for wearing an 
The Daily Telegraph’s fashion director, Lisa Armstrong, pointed at unfair judgments about age and gender playing out in the trousers tussle, saying that female politicians were expected to be stylish yet were maligned if they tried too hard. “
If male politicians “frequent Savile Row, where a suit can easily cost £5,000, they’re praised for supporting a national craft,” Ms. Armstrong noted.
She added, “Theresa May is damned if she does and sneered at if she doesn’t.”
In the end, Mrs. May could have the last laugh: In recent days, the Amanda Wakeley leather trousers 