
LONDON — London is my summer camp. For most of this century, it has been where I head during the dog days, when New York turns still and sullen under a scratchy blanket of heat. To me, gray skies and cooler temperatures are as welcoming as the spires of Disneyland are to a child. But most important, 
I started my latest tour of duty with 
Because of London’s staggered matinee schedule (on Broadway, all the theaters tend to have afternoon performances on the same two or three days), I’ve been able to book as many as a dozen performances in a single week. There are definite advantages to such sustained, concentrated theatergoing. Patterns — cultural, commercial, political — seem to emerge more clearly for me than they do in New York, at least as seen through the glazed eyes of a jet-lagged Yank on a marathon.
Even stateside, I’m a devoted reader of the news reports out of London. And I’m always looking for how what I’m reading is reflected on the stages in the West End and London fringes.
Often, there’s a quicker turnaround time than Broadway affords in bringing a new work to the boards. David Hare’s “Stuff Happens,” about the American and British invasion of Iraq, and Richard Bean’s “Great Britain,” about the newspaper phone-hacking scandal, showed up at the National when their subjects were still the stuff of current headlines.
Of course, it’s probably a bit early for “Brexit” and the recent upheavals at Downing Street and among the major parties to be given literal stage life. But I’ll be curious to see how new strains of nationalism and ethnocentricity — which are certainly coursing through the United States these days — register.
The relatively direct and topical conversation between British theatergoers and theater makers is one I envy as a New Yorker. Or is that simply an American’s grass-is-greener myopia? As I cover what’s happening on British stages during the next few weeks, I’d be most interested in hearing from audience members in London (and throughout Britain) on this matter.