
BERLIN — After the referendum vote in Britain to leave the European Union, the result raised questions about what other surprises might follow. The global 
That prospect created an opening for another European Union member, one that almost certainly would never leave it, to usurp Britain’s role as the leading European art center. The most likely candidate was Germany, which has the bloc’s largest population and economy by far. That is what Martin Roth, the director of the 
“I can imagine that Berlin will become considerably more important if London loses its influence,” Mr. Roth predicted in an interview with the German press agency DPA.
But then Germany held a vote of its own. It’s not going anywhere, but maybe a lot of art there isn’t, either.
In early July, Parliament enacted the Cultural Property Protection Law, or Kulturgutschutzgesetz. The most contentious feature of the law requires a license to take any artwork that is more than 70 years old and valued at more than 300,000 euros out of Germany. A license will be approved only if a branch office of a government agency — there will be one for each of the 16 states — determines that the work is not of national significance.
Opponents of the law say it will do little to achieve its goal of preserving Germany’s cultural heritage and could damage it by limiting public viewing, in and out of the country, of important works. For so little, if any, benefit, the critics add, the potential restriction on so much art — works priced above €300,000, or about $337,000, hardly constitute an exclusive club — will make Germany a smaller and more insular market and put a cap on prices.
“They’re killing the German art market,” said Johann König, the owner of the 
The law caused considerable harm even before it was enacted, German dealers say. Because it was discussed and debated for months, collectors saw it coming. Many exported works that might have required a license after it took effect. They were egged on, the dealers say, by the big international auction houses, which offered to sell or store works abroad after warning owners of the plunge in value that would occur if they remained in Germany.
“Collectors have already brought out everything of interest,” said Bernd Schultz, the founder of the 
Representatives from Christie’s and Sotheby’s said they preferred not to discuss the law or their response to it.
With many works taken abroad, the law has had an appreciable impact already, but authorities on the market fear that there is more to come. The need for an export license will dampen interest from buyers, they predict, especially those outside Germany.
“A high-value work could sell for one-tenth of the price in Germany” that it might fetch elsewhere “because it’s a low-price market,” said Clare McAndrew, the founder and managing director of Art Economics, a research and consulting firm in Dublin. In Germany, she said, “they don’t have high-value sales or a critical mass of buyers.”
The law is not the only impediment that the German government puts in the way of art collectors and dealers. Mr. König pointed out that value-added tax, at 19 percent, is assessed on the total price of an art sale, not just on the profit that a dealer makes from it. German dealers also must add 5.8 percent to the price of a work bought from a living artist as a social charge, he said.
Critics of the law make a persuasive case. Too persuasive, in the opinion of Klaus Gerrit Friese, a prominent Berlin gallery owner and the former director, for 18 years, of the Association of German Galleries.
“Galleries hurt themselves by discussing it so openly,” Mr. Friese said. “Everyone says the market is weak and they’re not getting the money they expect when something is sold in Germany. They think they can get double or triple when they sell in Switzerland or London.”
The export of nationally important artworks was subject to a state veto before the law was passed. But it was applied sparingly. The law brings the export of any modestly priced work under government discretion, drawing complaints on several grounds.
Judging cultural importance on financial, rather than exclusively curatorial, criteria shows a lack of understanding of what makes a work part of a country’s heritage, art experts say. It also betrays what many see as the real reason behind the law: a desire to allow German museums to buy good merchandise cheap.
“They’re saying they don’t want it to leave the country,” Mr. Schultz said, “but they don’t want to pay the price to keep it here.”
Representatives of the German Culture Ministry could not be reached for comment, but in a 2015 interview with the 
If that is an intention of the law, it may backfire, said Friederike Gräfin von Brühl, a partner in Berlin for the law firm K&L Gates who focuses on art issues. German tax rules confer benefits on collectors who lend their works to public institutions, but the raised profile that comes from public exhibition has made some clients reluctant to lend their art, regardless of the breaks, Ms. von Brühl said. “I hear from collectors that they don’t want to put works on display because they will become known and be considered part of the national heritage,” she said.
The law may seem like an un-European restriction on the free movement of property, but Ms. McAndrew noted that art is singled out in the European Union’s founding document. “In the Treaty of Rome, one derogation allows member states to put whatever controls they like on something called ‘national treasures,”’ she said. “It’s the one exception to free trade.” Many countries have cultural property laws of varying severity. Italy and Spain “call everything a national treasure,” Ms. McAndrew said. Britain’s law is less restrictive. Its most important feature is a market mechanism; if a buyer is found for a work that comes under the law, the government has a year to match the price offered or let it go. The law is somewhere in the middle, Ms. McAndrew said, but she called the law “quite an invasion of people’s private property rights.” But in Germany, private property confers responsibilities, not just rights, Ms. von Brühl said. The constitution includes a notion of noblesse oblige: an obligation for those who have — art in this case — to share it with those who do not.
The validity and limits of the law will ultimately be decided in the courts, she said, with the highest court, the Federal Constitutional Court, being the eventual final arbiter. To try to push the process along, collectors are being encouraged to step up and create test cases to challenge the law. In the meantime, collectors who want to export art can try to turn the cultural bureaucracy to their advantage. Dealers say they have adopted a tactic of shopping around for a branch of the licensing agency that might see a particular work as insufficiently important to keep in the country.
“You’re still allowed to move it around within Germany,” Mr. Schultz said. “You could take it to a place where they don’t care as much. Berlin may say yes,” that a work is of national importance. “Bavaria may say no.”
As for those who have spirited their collections out of the country already, they may not be as much in the clear as they think, at least not financially, especially if Britain was the final destination. All of a German citizen’s assets are liable to inheritance tax wherever they may be, Ms. von Brühl said, but other countries tax the estates of foreigners on assets located within their borders.
Treaties typically eliminate double taxation that arises from discrepant legal systems, but no such treaty exists between Germany and Britain, she said. German collectors who bought a one-way ticket to London for their art may want to move to a tax-friendlier location, such as Amsterdam, she advised.
Another option to consider, she said, is owning art through a company, foundation or trust.
There is more at stake in the law than just the prices at which artworks sell and the ability to move them in and out of the country, Ms. von Brühl added.
A thriving German art market “is good for the whole cultural ecosystem,” she said. “Artists like to live in Berlin today. That could change.”
That is what worries Mr. König. He said he was considering opening a gallery in London, Brexit or no Brexit, or New York as a hedge against adverse developments at home.
“I hope German culture remains so prosperous that we can survive this,” he said. “As long as the art remains strong, we should be O.K., but it’s questionable.”