
In an unusual 
Mr. Schumacher, speaking at the World Architecture Festival in Berlin on Nov. 18, advocated a market-based, gentrifying approach to affordable housing that would effectively displace working-class, lower-income, residents, many of them minorities, from city centers in London and elsewhere. The letter from the London-based company said: “Patrik Schumacher’s ‘urban policy manifesto’ does not reflect Zaha Hadid Architects’ past — and will not be our future.”
Mr. Schumacher’s eight-point manifesto caused an 
According to the letter, Mr. Schumacher’s speech, as an independent lecturer, did not represent the ethic established by Zaha Hadid, who died in March, or the direction since maintained by its board of directors. The letter came as a reaction to opposition within the 400-person company itself and in response to hostile pushback from the public. It was issued with the knowledge of the board, which includes Mr. Schumacher.
Mr. Schumacher has frequently made provocative, sometimes libertarian remarks in the past, and has said he favors Brexit.
While Ms. Hadid was alive, she was the dominant voice of the office: Daughter of a prominent Iraqi socialist, she had long espoused a socially responsible architecture with an emphasis on public space and contributed time pro bono to civic projects. The letter indicated that Mr. Schumacher’s pronouncements should not be confused with “Zaha’s legacy” at the multicultural firm, which is devoted to “an architecture of inclusivity.”
Mr. Schumacher, who replaced her as principal of the company, was arguing against affordable housing and advocating for the privatization of public space, including parks.
The letter did not represent rebellion within the ranks of the office against Mr. Schumacher’s leadership, according to a spokesman for the office: “Patrik’s contribution to the practice, now and in the future, has never been in question.” The spokesman said that the company was “affirming core beliefs the office, led by Zaha and Patrik, has practiced for over 30 years.”