
Hillary Clinton and Donald J. Trump made their closing arguments in states that both view as must-wins to be victorious today. 
Despite the ugliness of the campaign, there are signs that Americans are expressing themselves at the ballot box in large numbers. Turnout in states that allow early voting was high, and many voters told The Times that they were eager for the election to end.
And last, our 360 video series 
He says the surge could be enough to overcome Mr. Trump’s strength among 
We’ll be tracking the results live after the polls close. Here are 
We look at how the F.B.I., in the span of a week, 
And how might the election affect stocks? Swings over the course of the campaign suggest that the markets prefer one candidate to the other, 
Heavy smog continues to 
Hong Kong is bracing for more street protests and tough questions about the independence of its courts after 
And Australia won’t be legalizing 
Environmental groups protesting the Dakota Access pipeline near the Standing Rock Sioux Reservation are targeting a new group: 
“It couldn’t be happening at a worse moment in American public life,” 
Sergey Karjakin of Russia became the world’s youngest chess grandmaster at age 12. Now 26, he is about to 
“I don’t play chess for fun, it’s my job,” Mr. Karjakin said. “And I happen to love my job very much.”
Zadie Smith’s latest work, “
Our critic described the book this way: “A novel that showcases its author’s formidable talents in only half its pages, while bogging down the rest of the time in formulaic and predictable storytelling.”
If you have a few moments, take our 
Do you know what the scientific definition of a second is? Hint: It isn’t the time it takes to say “one Mississippi.”
If you’re looking for comfort food this election night, try this 
Britons have been saying a lot of goodbyes in the past few months.
They voted to
It’s a play on “
Such nationalist expressions abounded around the 19th century, when rival nations in a disunited Europe settled scores in wars, revolutions and slights.
But the Germans also pick on the Poles for evaporating from parties, which the British call an “Irish goodbye.” (
Of course, the slaps don’t end with departures. Germans can mention, though rarely, “English shopping” — that is, theft, as in the colonial past.
And references to historic battles get drawn into the mix, too. So the French could say, depending on how Brexit works out, “c’est un vrai coup de Trafalgar,” a true Trafalgar blow, reminiscent of 