
Donald J. Trump, whose campaign is in dire financial and organizational straits, suggests that 
Mrs. Clinton is meeting House Democrats today, as she looks to unite the party before next month’s national convention. She’s polling ahead in the crucial states of 
The former presidential candidate 
A bipartisan group of senators is calling for banning 
After six years of talk about an alternative to the Affordable Care Act, House Republicans 
The authorities are trying 
Some victims of the Florida massacre had their sexual orientation revealed accidentally. For others, the 
It’s the last day of campaigning in Britain before the referendum on Thursday on membership in the European Union. Here’s 
John Kerry, the secretary of state, toed the White House’s line in a meeting with eight Foreign Service officers 
Judith Hill, who was with Prince when he lost consciousness on a plane days before his fatal overdose, 
Her swift reaction may have helped save Prince’s life that night.
He was convicted of breaking financial rules in payoffs aimed at covering up sexual abuse.
On Tuesday, she told a Senate committee that weak economic growth in the U.S. could force the Fed to hold off on interest rate increases.
As group play in 
That’s not actually possible, 
Buying into new 
In the mystery drama “
Tonight, try this classic and simple French dish of 
Centennials of some of the bloodiest battles of World War I are being 
Some of them had to 
President Franklin D. Roosevelt, hoping to improve the treatment of military veterans, asked a panel to develop a program during World War II.
That request led to the Servicemen’s Readjustment Act, or the G.I. Bill, which went into law 
The G.I. Bill gave veterans low-interest loans to buy a home, farm or business; 52 weeks of unemployment insurance; job placement services; and up to four years of federal aid for learning.
When the legislation was introduced in Congress in January 1944, some lawmakers argued that the unemployment insurance would encourage veterans not to work. Others worried about the introduction of battle-hardened men to universities, at the time bastions of the rich.
It took months of negotiations, but the heroism of the D-Day invasion of Normandy on June 6 helped seal 
By 1947, nearly half of the nation’s college students were veterans.
Eventually, about half of America’s 16 million World War II veterans took advantage of the education benefit, helping to pave the way for the modern middle class.