
With her polling lead slipping, Hillary Clinton still has Pennsylvania as a firewall — for now.
David Rothschild, an economist at Microsoft Research who runs 
He also discussed the potential importance of the ground game, the perceived failure of betting markets in predicting “Brexit” and the ethics of live forecasting on Election Day, among other topics. Here’s the lightly edited text of our email exchange.
It has been the state to put Hillary Clinton over 270 electoral votes, should she win all of the other more likely states for her. Conversely, it’s also the state that would put Trump over the hump, if he wins all of the states that are more likely for him.
Every day, I run 100,000 simulations of the election. I use the probability of each state going for Clinton or Trump, then I mix that with a correlation matrix that defines the relationships between the states. And every day since late July, Pennsylvania has been the state that most frequently is won by the candidate who wins the election. Currently, there are just 6 percent of scenarios where Clinton wins Pennsylvania but loses the election, and just 3 percent of scenarios where Clinton loses Pennsylvania and wins the election.
Since Pennsylvania is more secure for the Clinton camp than other swing states, it’s unlikely that Clinton loses Pennsylvania and wins either Florida or Ohio or other states to make up for the necessary electoral votes. And Trump could take Florida and Ohio and North Carolina, and go over the top with some other combination of swing states. But Pennsylvania is his most likely route.
What I will be looking for in Pennsylvania over the next few weeks is simple: polls in Pennsylvania; polls in Ohio, which have similar demographics (and a lot of polling); and national polls that correlate heavily among the key swing states.
Furthermore, I will be paying special attention to the crosstabs of national polls that focus on key swing demographics for Pennsylvania, when available and reliable, including white women. Beyond the polling for the presidential election, the ups and downs of the Pennsylvania Senate race could be important. The Democratic challenger, Katie McGinty, currently enjoys a slight lead, and that get-out-the-vote campaign will heavily overlap with Clinton’s.
Further, we will learn more soon about ad buys and get-out-the-vote operations in the state. Currently Clinton enjoys a comfortable margin in both categories. If they make a difference — and if they ever make a difference it will be this year with a massive disparity in both advertising and get-out-the-vote efforts — it should give Clinton a slight advantage over the polling average.
But the third-party contenders (Gary Johnson and Jill Stein) are polling better than in recent cycles, leaving a few more people in the possible swing category. Voters in mid-September do not swing between Clinton and Trump (my colleagues and I have dubbed that 
While there are certainly surprises that could influence the race, the first debate looms very large as the last major set piece for Trump to make a move. The second and third debates are generally too late. Of course, the election is won on the state level, not the national level, but movements in national polls correlate heavily with state movement.
I do not think too much about Georgia, Arizona and North Carolina, because if Clinton wins these states she has certainly won the entire election. The only thing I worry about there is how the tightness affects Clinton or Trump’s ability to wage advertising and get-out-the-vote efforts in other key swing states.
There is a complex relationship between the swing states that I model considering three things: the likely correlated impact of any major events or shocks in the days before Election Day (the correlated impact would be very high); the likely correlated errors between the polling and Election Day outcome (reasonably high); and the likely correlation of random chance on Election Day that affects voting (i.e., rain or shine, and this is not as high of correlation).
The fact that the probability of victory for Clinton in the crucial swing state of Pennsylvania continues to be a few percentage points above her probability of winning the election reflects a very high correlation between the states in both how events could impact all of the states and the sizes and correlation of any potential polling error.
By the way, it is amazing that pundits spend so much time talking about how different this election is, how unique this election is, but the statisticians are looking at the same map and basically taking out Virginia and putting in Pennsylvania. Four years ago it was: Romney must take Florida, Ohio and Virginia. This year it is: Trump must take Florida, Ohio and Pennsylvania.
To answer your question directly, I am not compelled to buy or sell Clinton contracts (that pay off $1 if she wins) at $0.70 . Of course, that is because I trust my model.
The company spearheading the effort, VoteCastr, plans real-time projections of presidential and Senate races in Colorado, Florida, Nevada, New Hampshire, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. It plans to publish a map and tables of its projected results on Slate, the online newsmagazine.
I am not concerned about how the Slate-Votecastr plan will affect voting. Voting is a major cost for many Americans with hourly wage jobs. Those people who choose to get registered and vote are pretty committed to voting. They are more likely going to fixate on any projection that rationalizes voting than a particular projection that unmotivates them.
If Slate reports the election is tight, people will use that to rationalize their decision to vote. If Slate reports that Clinton is winning, Clinton supporters will use that to rationalize winning big. And Trump’s supporters will turn to Fox News to confirm that Trump still has a strong chance and needs them more than ever. That is why Karl Rove was still predicting a Romney victory to the very end; he knew that some people just needed someone to convince them that it was worth the investment to stay in line to vote.
As a researcher, it has been very difficult to determine the effect of the campaigns, because all we get to witness is the net effect of both campaigns spending a fortune. But we are poised to witness the greatest imbalance ever in advertising and ground game spending.
The Upshot’s presidential forecast, updated daily.
A smart reading of polling data is a prediction on who will vote and how they will vote. The “Who Will Vote” question, how polling translates into votes, is influenced by the get-out-the-vote operations (and the related voter-suppression efforts). Normally we assume these have a very low net effect, as both campaigns are pouring millions of dollars into states to get the marginal voters out to the voting locations. There is strong empirical evidence that this will not be the case this year. And if markets see that late in the cycle, with both spending and the results of early voting, they will assume that Clinton could be one to two percentage points better than her polling average.
How can prediction markets deal with this problem? Should there be reason to worry that markets will again be slow to accept new information?
As far as Brexit goes, predicting something at 
To answer your more precise question, there is certainly a growing phase as traders learn about how and how quickly new information is absorbed into the markets. The more established the markets become, the less I worry about trader inefficiency.
I am unconcerned about the market being slow to incorporate new information in the presidential election. Information is coming from many sources, and traders have a healthy feeling that they are the smart money trading against the dumb money. I am also very pleased at the measured responses prediction markets have given to major events, relative to most poll-based forecasts.
Traders respond to the restrictions and fees by over-wagering on long shots, slightly distorting the prices from the underlying values. I correct for this, as best I can, on PredictWise, but it is unfortunate that the C.F.T.C.’s restrictions limit both the overall involvement and efficient involvement of traders.
In addition to providing accurate predictions that we use to understand politics, prediction markets are valuable tools for me (and others) to learn about financial markets. Distorted incentives make that more difficult. Further, can you imagine a world where average Americans invested in prediction markets the way they do in fantasy sports? It would be great to see people researching and rooting at the debates as much as they do each weekend for the N.F.L. We should encourage access to prediction markets.
I should emphasize that should the election be held today, Clinton would be above 90 percent to win it. The uncertainty is that the election is held on Nov. 8, 2016, not today, and Trump still has time to close the race. There are still lingering questions and events that will be resolved.
But she is around three points up in the national polls, and six points up or more in enough states to carry the Electoral College. Combine that polling lead with a larger advertising budget and get-out-the-vote apparatus that should help her perform well in reference to the polling. It would be a catastrophic polling failure if the election were held today and she lost.