
Since Andrew Sullivan abruptly 
“I was happy doing that and was hoping to continue, when this Grendel started stirring in the forest,” Mr. Sullivan said on Friday by telephone from his home in Provincetown, Mass. “You could almost see the coffee vibrate on the table, as this creature came out of the swamp.”
In May, Mr. Sullivan rejoined the political fray with a 7,000-plus-word cover 
Mr. Sullivan — a idiosyncratic gay Catholic conservative and unabashed Obamaphile — spent the last two weeks 
I got off social media altogether except Instagram, where I have a private account. Last fall I went on a 10-day silent-meditation retreat. I tried to detach myself completely. This spring, when I saw Trump begin to make moves, I started to read the news more regularly again.
It reminds me just why I got so tired. But still, it was really great to be back with the gang. The readers all showed up. It’s been kind of big warm bath of nostalgia.
She hasn’t changed, for good or ill. She’s who she is. She’s the only thing standing between Trump and us. She’ll do.
I was hoping that piece would be thought of as hyperbolic or overwrought, but sadly not. By not being part of the daily cycle of news, and watching this evolve, I was able not to be co-opted into the narrative Trump creates. When you’re always catching up with him, you can’t summon sufficient outrage each day.
There is obviously a disconnect between many of us in media and the part of the country that has really suffered under the shifts of globalization. Those of us who cover it may miss a core element of this, and thereby missed, last year, Trump’s appeal and potential. I felt that way with Brexit too, though there I had more contact. Members of my family voted for leave, and I was able to talk to them about it.
One gets the feeling we, the media, are irrelevant in some ways. By that, I just mean the forces going on in the society are not things the media can prevent or change. But we can and should help understand this crisis and warn against false solutions. If feelings are trumping arguments — the pun is fully intended — it doesn’t mean that arguments don’t still have to be made. It may not win the news cycle. It may not even win this election cycle. But it’s a critical task.
I think we are. Also, coming back to the web, I’m struck by how so many outlets are doing so many similar things. It feels to me that before, where we had a bunch of very different voices, in a kind of diverse cacophony, it’s now one big algorithmic wave of sameness. You go from one site to another, and they’re all chasing the same stories, the same quick hot takes.
I’m just going to see how it goes. But right now I’m working on my next essay for New York, about the culture of mass distraction. Concentration is the new black. One thing I realize, I thought I was living a life and blogging; in fact I was just blogging. It’s zero-sum. You can’t do both at once.