
Updated, 9:04 a.m.
It’s primary week, again.
On Tuesday, many New Yorkers are choosing nominees for 
Well, Democrats are — there aren’t any Republican primaries in the city that day.
Perhaps the most competitive contest is for District 13, which includes Upper Manhattan and a chunk of the Bronx.
Nine candidates are vying to replace Representative Charles B. Rangel, 
Things have changed since Mr. Rangel first went to Washington.
The Upper Manhattan district, long anchored in Harlem, was created in the 1940s.
Today, it has been changed by immigration, redistricting and gentrification, and includes a strong Dominican influence.
Two of the candidates on the ballot are Albany veterans: Assemblyman Keith Wright and State Senator Adriano D. Espaillat.
Other races to watch:
Five Democrats are looking to fill the seat held by Steve Israel, 
While his seat is probably safe, Representative Jerrold Nadler, whose district has a 
To vote in Tuesday’s congressional primaries you must be registered. Check your voter 
Or call the Board of Elections at 866-VOTE-NYC.
Here’s what else is happening:
Here comes a beautiful Monday to make us nostalgic for last weekend and eager for Friday to roll around again.
It’ll be 
We may see some showers and thunderstorms over the next couple of days — but hey, you win some, you lose some.
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The Mad Libs word game was invented in 1953 by the comedy writers Leonard B. Stern and Roger Price.
Mr. Stern needed a word to describe a character’s nose, and asked his friend Mr. Price for an adjective.
“Clumsy” and “naked,” Mr. Price offered, without knowing what was to be described.
They realized they had stumbled onto something that would make a fun game, and the two published 14,000 copies of the first book of Mad Libs, keeping them in Mr. Price’s Manhattan apartment.
(For the next few months, Mr. Price ate standing up.)
This summer, Mad Libs is hitting the road.
A car with a dry-erase surface will travel across the country, recording Mad Libs in search of America’s favorite adjective.
First stop: the “Good Morning America” studios in Times Square from 7 a.m. to 9 a.m.
You can follow along during the next few weeks on 
It’s sure to be a ______ [adj.] time.