
Theresa May, Britain’s new prime minister, in her first speech before the United Nations General Assembly on Tuesday, vowed that Britain would remain an important and responsible international player despite its vote to leave the European Union.
For Mrs. May, who became prime minister in July after the so-called 
Given Britain’s importance as a nuclear power and permanent member of the Security Council, the world will be watching closely to take her measure. Mrs. May pledged that Britain would keep its commitment to spend not only 2 percent of gross domestic product on defense, a NATO target, but also 0.7 percent of G.D.P. on development aid, which is more than most countries spend.
Mrs. May is not associated with any particular foreign policy, but the main themes of her speech were aviation security; modern slavery and human trafficking, a 
Most striking was Mrs. May’s call for a global commitment to dealing with the migrant crisis, emphasizing that in a period of anxiety and globalization, countries must be able to control immigration and their own borders.
She said that legitimate refugees should be protected, but ideally kept near their countries of origin, and that they should remain in the first safe country they reach rather than continuously move across the borders of safe countries. She also said that there must be a more efficient way of sending back economic migrants who are not fleeing persecution in their home countries.
Britain has been criticized for taking relatively few Syrian refugees, but it does provide considerable aid, both through the United Nations and separately, to countries like Jordan, Turkey and Lebanon, who host millions of refugees from Syria’s civil war.
Mrs. May called for “reducing unmanaged population movement” as part of a “more effective global approach to manage migration.”
She also said that the world must do more to stop human trafficking and modern forms of slavery.
While in New York, she plans to meet with several American business executives to convince them that despite Britain’s vote to leave the European Union, Britain is “still open for business” and intends to play a global role.