
PARIS — The couture season began with a coup. Coupe de Champagne, that is.
The Paris skies may have been overcast, and the mood dampened by the “Brexit,” but amid the gilded and the shadowy corners of the lavish Hôtel de la Païva along the Champs-Élysées, Miu Miu set up a temporary supper club to celebrate its latest resort collection and invited a who’s who of industry names to help.
The supermodel Kate Moss arrived and promptly hit the decks, pumping out disco classics in a sheer black mini dress accessorized with a cigarette and Count Nikolai von Bismarck. The model of the moment Bella Hadid, the “Game of Thrones” star Sophie Turner and the French singer Soko joined in, bedecked (bien sûr, given the host) in Miu Miu colors and crystals. Upstairs, the designers Marc Jacobs and Giles Deacon giggled in a cubbyhole bed with Dasha Zhukova, the Russian businesswoman and wife of Roman Abramovich, and Katie Grand, the editor of Love Magazine. It was all deliciously decadent while remaining firmly tongue-in-cheek. And the endless supplies of oysters were pretty good, too.
Over on the other side of the avenue, in the ballroom of the Peninsula hotel, Donatella Versace, fresh from a couture show that had taken place less than an hour before, was sandwiched between A-list faces from her front row (Adrien Brody, Jennifer Garner and Naomi Campbell) at a dinner in support of amfAR, the H.I.V./AIDS research organization.
“Of course I’m here. There’s nowhere else tonight I’d rather be,” Ms. Campbell said, as Tory Burch and Pierre-Yves Roussel, chairman and chief executive of the fashion group of LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton and Ms. Burch’s fiancé, looked on.
“Naomi is the type of woman who shows up,’’ Kevin R. Frost, amfAR’s chief executive, said as Champagne, and laughter, flowed steadily around him. “She’s been a supporter for 23 years, and we first met when she offered to auction off her navel ring for us — and promptly did.”
“Naomi Campbell, Kate Moss and Heidi Klum have never, ever said no to an invite when they are in town,” he added. “To me, they are a trifecta of perfection.”
Later, after the main course, wallets were opened as Simon de Pury steered a silent auction for the charity, culminating in a fierce bidding war over a black-and-white photograph by Terry O’Neill of Elizabeth Taylor and David Bowie, smoking. Karen Elson, the redheaded model who had opened the Versace show, put in an early offer of 30,000 euros, or nearly $33,400, for the 1974 shot, then a tussle broke out between Isabel dos Santos, the Angolan investor who Forbes says is Africa’s wealthiest woman, and Patrice Motsepe, the South African mining magnate.
Mr. Motsepe eventually scooped up the lot, before a raucous after-party set to wrap up the night, starring the German singer Ute Lemper.