
Here are the top 10 comments of the week on our digital platforms, as selected by our readers and the journalists who moderate nearly every comment.
So the fact that it took the Turkish military this long to go hard against the soft Islamism of Erdogan, as well as Erdogan’s increasing willingness to usurp more and more state power, is surprising to me.
I guess they didn’t want to ruffle E.U. feathers as they sought the greatest seal of approval for modern secularism — acceptance to the E.U. But now that they see Brexit and the massive trouble caused by the E.U.’s common currency, the bloom is off the rose.
So the Turkish military finally had space to act against Erdogan, and act they have done.
— 
We were going to depose a tyrant and make everybody’s life better. We were going to put a stop to brutality.
What we should have learned is that some problems don’t have quick answers that don’t create worse problems. So jumping on the Trump wagon, or telling Hillary and Obama to do something, anything, ignores the gravity of a situation that won’t get better tomorrow no matter how loudly we yell or how many people we detain or bombs we deploy.
We are a world awash in weapons and grievances.
Take them on directly if you want real change. But be prepared for it to take time.
Otherwise, we cede control of our lives to men like the driver of the death truck.
And yet — what do I say to them? I don’t want my children to live in fear and think the world is a scary, horrible place — but I am secretly terrified for their well being.
— 
This comment received more than 2,300 likes.
What Trump doesn’t realize is that he will lose many votes for picking Pence. There may be many happy Indiana citizens tomorrow!
It also has me wishing the American conservative movement could also avoid the divisiveness of so-called family values and other social issues which have torn this country apart for years.
Years ago, Ms. May campaigned against police profiling, a stance viewed as heretical to the now-purified American conservative movement.
A refreshingly thoughtful, balanced individual. Good luck to the Brits.
Nevertheless, there seemed to be a lot to like about Theresa May. Very hard-working, refuses to yuck it up with the boys, has plenty of steel in her character, and — unlike Margaret Thatcher — has made real efforts to help other women succeed in politics.
Then she blew it for me on her first day by appointing the discredited and demonstrably untrustworthy clown Boris Johnson as foreign secretary.
That’s the rough equivalent of America’s secretary of state. Appoint him court jester or tea maker, but come on — foreign secretary?
So much for any hope she’d be a serious, pragmatic P.M. Very disappointing.
Why is everyone more concerned about a man that is not even in power than people in positions of power that continue to overstep and abuse that power at a seemingly increasing rate?
We just saw [Attorney General Loretta] Lynch and Bill Clinton meet at the Phoenix airport to comment on an ongoing investigation of which the latter’s wife was the main subject; now we have an “apolitical” Supreme Court justice making strong political comments outside of the courtroom.
This is a democratic republic, not an aristocracy.
I absolutely loathe walking as exercise, and it’s only bearable if I’m doing something else at the same time or if I’m walking my dog because he needs it. Pokémon Go makes my walks less dull, and gets me moving more places than my usual rut.
If my dog and I go out for a few hours of walking and playing Pokémon Go, everyone wins: He gets exercise, I get exercise, and we both have fun.