
This year, a surreal presidential campaign and head-snappingly violent events at home (Orlando, Dallas) and abroad (Nice, Istanbul, Baghdad) — not to mention Brexit, Zika and Prince — have kept our phones buzzing around the clock, and news organizations scrambling, 24/7, to keep up with a cascade of stories.
In times like this, Twitter is the first place many journalists turn to for updates —much the way earlier generations turned to wire service teletype machines and police scanners. But Twitter’s not just a valuable source of news, eyewitness accounts and reports from correspondents on the scene; it’s also a place where reporters can trade information, take the public’s temperature, catalyze important discussions and check the zeitgeist weather vanes.
It might sometimes feel as if the great stuff is buried amid heaps of rumors, speculation and disinformation — not to mention the usual internet trivia, bigotry and snark. But Twitter users can turn to myriad guides to help them navigate the labyrinth. It’s like having every sort of expert imaginable on speed dial: investigative reporters, policy wonks, renowned scholars, scientists, musicians, artists, historians, you name it — and being able to tap into their thinking and inside sources.
Want up-to-the-minute updates on Trump and Hillary? You can tune in to top political reporters on the campaign trail like my colleagues Maggie Haberman @maggieNYT, Jonathan Martin @jmartNYT, Alex Burns @alexburnsNYT and Ashley Parker @AshleyRParker.
Want background or the latest news on the Islamic State and Al Qaeda? You can check the feeds of terrorism experts like Rukmini Callimachi @rcallimachi, Michael Weiss @michaeldweiss, Ali Soufan @Ali_H_Soufan and Richard Engel @RichardEngel.
National security and foreign policy? Follow experts like David Sanger @SangerNYT, Mark Mazzetti @MarkMazzettiNYT, Andrea Mitchell @mitchellreports, Laura Rozen @lrozen and David Ignatius @IgnatiusPost.
For years, I checked Twitter for all these reasons. I loved the nonstop scroll of news stories and the serendipity of the timeline — the random juxtaposition of stories, so much like a newspaper’s front page. And I loved checking in to see what colleagues and friends had to say about the political debates, the World Series, the latest episode of “Breaking Bad.”
I only worked up the gumption to start posting tweets myself two years ago — but it was easy to become addicted. If you’re a news junkie, it’s a way to turn all that time spent surfing news sites into something tangible, a way to upload some of the clutter in your head.
Twitter feeds can be like little magazines curated to reflect users’ personal interests — literary, political, scholarly, comic or all of the above: daily newsletters that create small, personal snail trails through the vast landscape of data that is the web today. There are reporters who take you inside the action on the ground in Syria and Iraq; journalists who create powerful mini-narratives within their Twitter feeds that amplify our understanding of crucial issues — like cyberwar, constitutional debates, the refugee crisis — as events unfold over time; and artists and writers who shed light on their own work or that of others with links, photos and videos.
For me, tweeting’s mainly about curation. Sharing links to news and articles that help put that news in perspective. Reminding readers of important continuing stories in culture, politics, technology and foreign policy. Directing attention to some of the remarkable resources offered by institutions like the Metropolitan Museum of Art @metmuseum and the British Museum @britishmuseum and lesser-known sites like the speech database American Rhetoric and Open Culture @openculture (a collection of free e-books, movies, interviews, lectures and educational resources). And, above all, passing on some of the great stuff that other people have written, found or flagged.
I try to provide book recommendations (not just new books, but also older titles worth revisiting), and links to author profiles and book news — like a new study showing that college students prefer print books to e-books, or a report that Google is reading hundreds of romance novels to its artificial intelligence engine to try to teach it conversation.
I also try to link to older articles, books and studies that might provide some background or added perspective to the news. Links to books about the war in Iraq and the rise of ISIS that give context to this year’s terrorist attacks. On the centenary of the Battle of the Somme, links to two brilliant books on World War I — Paul Fussell’s “The Great War and Modern Memory” and Christopher Clark’s “The Sleepwalkers.” With thawing United States-Cuban relations, a link to Leonardo Padura’s list of top 10 Cuban novels. And with the spiraling insanity of this year’s presidential race, links to Hunter S. Thompson’s classic Rolling Stone piece, “Fear and Loathing on the Campaign Trail in ’72,” Richard Hofstadter’s classic essay “The Paranoid Style in American Politics” and two books about the growing assault on reason and expertise in American culture.
Often, it’s just a case of passing on others’ suggestions and insights: President Obama’s summer reading list; a terrific 12th-grade reading list from a St. Louis high school; a list of books about the immigrant experience from the New York Public Library; Werner Herzog’s recommended reading list for filmmakers; Esquire’s list of 80 must-read books; photo galleries of the world’s most beautiful libraries and bookstores.
And then there’s simple free-association: timely books, quotes and poems; striking photographs and paintings I’ve stumbled across or remembered. The Brexit vote made me think of Barbara Tuchman’s book “The March of Folly,” and Claude Monet’s lovely sequence of paintings of the Houses of Parliament. The Rio Olympics reminded me of Hitchcock’s masterpiece “Notorious” and that decidedly lesser Bond movie “Moonraker.” And an article citing “The Brothers Karamazov” as Hillary Clinton’s favorite book reminded me of a picture of Lisa Simpson holding aloft a copy of Dostoyevsky’s novel, which reminded me of a Tumblr site, the Lisa Simpson Book Club.
Other posts are things I’ve seen or recalled: photos of book-reading gargoyles; a collection of “Alice in Wonderland” and “1984” covers; a GIF of a giant rotating sculpture in the shape of Kafka’s head; a series of book-themed trompe l’oeil street murals; a video clip of the famous bookstore scene with Humphrey Bogart in “The Big Sleep”; photos of offbeat libraries — the traveling donkey library, the floating boat library, the vending machine library, and so on.
Such odds and ends are like the jumble of stuff that accumulates in the top kitchen drawer — a far cry from important breaking news — but that’s Twitter, too, in all its splendid dishevelment: a mad, noisy mix of the momentous and the ordinary, the serious, silly and surprising.