
This splendid book by the historian and art critic Simon Schama could ­hardly be better timed, since it might plausibly be argued that “the face of Britain” changed on or about June 23, 2016. With the ­“Brexit” referendum, British citizens voted to leave the European Union, as the supposedly United Kingdom sought to become — in the eyes of many observers — whiter, more insular, more Christian, as well as considerably angrier, like one of those howling popes by Francis Bacon, a favorite artist of Schama’s.
This is hardly the first time the country’s identity has come into question, as Schama reminds us in “The Face of Britain,” a “triangular collaboration” of his British publisher with the National Portrait Gallery, from which most of his well-chosen ­illustrations are drawn, and Oxford Film and Television, which has produced a BBC television series to accompany it. The gallery was founded in 1856, Schama explains, “to tell the British who they were,” and “it was not accidental that the question was put at a time of sudden imperial uncertainty in India and the Crimea,” which also happened to be the golden age of ­self-consciously British museums.
We first encounter the “imperial swagger” of the British Empire, according to Schama, in the popular portraits — one of them “painted on the same English oak from which his ships were built” — of that predatory pirate-patriot Sir Francis Drake: “small, wiry, blue-eyed.” Like some character from “Game of Thrones,” Drake, “the first truly famous Englishman,” was often depicted with ­leather-winged ­dragons, known as wyverns, his personal mascots. He was encouraged by representatives of the “bling-happy” Queen Elizabeth I to “go rogue” in the ­Caribbean and elsewhere, making the world safe (and lucrative) for Protestantism.
But by the middle of the 19th century, British swagger had developed a hitch. The empire’s troops were dying in the Crimea (yes, the same Crimea seized by Vladimir Putin), supposedly to keep Russia from expanding its competing empire, and rebellious Indian soldiers tried to pull off a Brexit of their own. To counter the national angst, Victoria posed reassuringly for John Mayall’s camera, “as the image of the motherly Queen first imprinted itself on the mind of the British public.”
In scope and freewheeling method, “The Face of Britain” resembles ­Schama’s marvelous 1995 volume “Landscape and Memory,” which charted changing cultural attitudes toward rivers, forests and other geographical features. Seething with ideas, “The Face of Britain,” with its arresting compilation of “stories of eyeballing encounters in British art and history,” has no single overarching argument (thank goodness!) and scrambles chronology in favor of a thematic and exploratory approach.
Schama devotes the first of his five parts to “The Face of Power,” precisely where we’d expect to begin in the National Portrait Gallery. Here are Churchill, “the most famous Briton alive or dead,” photographed by Yousuf Karsh (who plucked a cigar from the great man’s mouth and captured his dour response for all eternity); Holbein’s “bull-like and Jovian” ­Henry VIII, conspicuously outfitted with “the royal codpiece”; the regicide Oliver Cromwell, with his “inadequate comb-over” and conspicuous facial warts like “ungainly little soldiers standing to attention.”
But then, less predictably, Schama turns to “The Face of Love” (John Lennon, in naked, fetal curl, and Yoko Ono, as captured by Annie Leibovitz five hours before Lennon was murdered), “The Face of Fame” (Drake and others), “The Face in the Mirror” (self-portraits) and — a particularly urgent topic these days — “Faces of the People.” For American gallerygoers, whose familiarity with 20th-century ­British art may not extend far beyond ­Lucian Freud and Francis Bacon, it’s good to be introduced to gems like Laura Knight’s “spectacularly powerful self-portrait,” in the act of completing a painting of a nude female model viewed in a mirror.
At the deepest, subliminal level, ­Schama believes that portraits register something primal in us all. “We come into the world wide-eyed,” he writes, “ready to stare.” And at the other end of life’s journey, portraiture is “an act of resistance to ­mortality.” Pictures can have their own mortality, Schama notes, suffering accidental destruction or deliberate defacement — a portrait of Thomas Carlyle slashed by a suffragette wielding a meat cleaver, the official portrait of Churchill, by Graham Sutherland, burned at the ­behest, apparently, of Churchill’s own indignant family, who were hoping for something more flatteringly heroic.
Since portraiture traffics in life and death, a guiding conviction for Schama is that what gives a particular work staying power is “vitality,” which is not the same thing as “an accurate map of features.” He seeks to match the vitality of the paintbrush with his own evocations of painterly flourish. Gainsborough’s two young daughters chase a butterfly, but look more closely: “Different, then, the two girls, but also complementary, inseparable; their hands clasped together at the moment of excitement, turning the two of them into a single human butterfly, one a fluttering wing of gold, the other creamy white.” The actor David Garrick’s asymmetrical eyebrows are “themselves a theater company of two . . . tragedy and comedy, sorrow and slapstick, dancing on the stage of his face.”
Schama’s heroes are the likes of ­Garrick’s friend William Hogarth, “the collective portraitist of the human circus.” Fiercely resistant to the idealizing tendencies of Sir Joshua Reynolds, Hogarth ­adopted “variety” as his watchword, reveling, as Schama notes, in “the knobbly and the irregular; the unseemly and even the deformed, mouths wide open with mirth, madness or pain.” The painter-surgeon Henry Tonks went a few steps further in his arrestingly accurate pastels of World War I soldiers who had had parts of their faces — “noses, eyes, cheeks” — blown or burned away in the trenches.
Variety is the dominant theme of ­Schama’s passionate concluding section, on “Faces of the People,” which opens with Enoch Powell’s nativist rant, in 1968 (though it could be 2016), about the dangers of an “immigrant-descended ­population” taking over Britain. In contrast, Schama marshals the Afro-Caribbean portrait photographer Charlie Phillips, who celebrated what was then the racially diverse neighborhood of Notting Hill, one of “the cheek-by-jowl districts of Powell’s nightmares,” where Schama, studying ­Talmud, used to hang out as a teenager.
Schama brings great intimacy and authority to such proceedings. Occasionally, he can aim for a little too much intimacy, pretending to withhold judgment — “We will never know” is an overused phrase — when he slyly wants us to imagine the worst. Musing about the romantic triangle of William and Jane Morris and Dante Gabriel Rossetti, he writes: “We will never know for sure whether, once the little Morris daughters were asleep, Janey or Gabriel walked through William’s room, separating them, and joined their bodies.” Given what Schama, in his characteristically vivid way, has told us about ­Rossetti’s abuse of “chloral hydrate for his insomnia and whisky to cut its bitter taste,” we may rather hope that Janey didn’t!