
“Post-truth” has been named Oxford Dictionaries’ 2016 international 
The use of “post-truth” — defined as “relating to or denoting circumstances in which objective facts are less influential in shaping public opinion than appeals to emotion and personal belief” — increased by 2,000 percent over last year, according to analysis of the Oxford English Corpus, which collects roughly 150 million words of spoken and written English from various sources each month.
Katherine Connor Martin, the head of United States dictionaries at Oxford University Press, said it surged most sharply in June after the Brexit vote and Donald J. Trump’s securing the Republican nomination for president, making it an unusually global word.
“What we found especially interesting is that it encapsulated a trans-Atlantic phenomenon,” she said. “Often, when looking at words, you’ll find one that’s a really big deal in the U.K. but not in the U.S.”
The term, whose first known usage in this particular sense was in a 1992 essay in The Nation magazine citing the Iran-contra scandal and the Persian Gulf War, does not represent an entirely new concept. But it does, Ms. Martin said, reflect a step past “truthiness,” the Stephen Colbert coinage that Merriam-Webster and the
“Truthiness is a humorous way of discussing a quality of specific claims,” she said. “Post-truth is an adjective that is describing a much bigger thing. It’s saying that the truth is being regarded as mostly irrelevant.”
Oxford’s word of the year is chosen to reflect “the ethos, mood or preoccupations” of a given year, but also to highlight the fact that English is always changing. Last year’s winner wasn’t a word at all, but the “
Some of the items on this year’s shortlist may prove ephemeral, like 
“That belongs to a really interesting class of words, labeled ‘rare’ in the dictionary, that are usually only trotted out when people want to say, ‘There’s a word for that,’” Ms. Martin said.
Others, like “alt-right,” seem likely to have more staying power, though that term has come under semantic attack from some on the left. In recent days, those critics have stepped up arguments that it as an overly cute — perhaps even post-truth? — 
Ms. Martin said that Oxford’s definition — “an ideological grouping associated with extreme conservative or reactionary viewpoints, characterized by a rejection of mainstream politics and by the use of online media to disseminate deliberately controversial content” — was a particularly difficult one to research and write.
In general, she said, it is not used as a “simple synonym” for white supremacy, though some who embrace the term do openly acknowledge its usefulness in softening and selling extreme ideas.
“What I would say as a lexicographer,” she said, “is that in choosing whether to say ‘alt-right’ or ‘white supremacist,’ it’s important to know what you mean.”