
In the ’60s, the artist 
What might have seemed exploitative in Wesselmann’s work now seems innocent, playful and celebratory, especially given that his subject was most often his wife of 41 years, whom he met as an art student at Cooper Union and painted off and on until his death in 2004. Time changes our perception, both in the distance it affords and through all that transpires in the interim. What once seemed shocking may now be seen as normal, and what seemed pernicious — the male gaze — can sometimes turn out to just be someone looking and trying to see.
Images of women in fashion spreads are frequently criticized for their provocative or sexualized nature, and historically, the majority of those pictures have been made by male photographers. Interestingly, more and more women photographers are emerging, offering their distinct and complicated impressions of women and the female form. I hope that photographers, whether male or female, continue to strive to capture women in ways that are challenging and not simply objectifying.
But it is still rare to see images of men in fashion spreads that are anywhere as complex as those of their female counterparts. As a general rule, men are portrayed as powerful alpha guys in suits or as oiled-up musclemen who look as though they’ve never worn a shirt. Those two singularly narrow, even cartoony, ideals are all but meaningless to many of the young male fashion designers, photographers, stylists and models we work with at this magazine. Our particular crew doesn’t abide old divisions and categories: where vulnerability is distinct from strength, or romantic sexiness is reserved only for images of women, or attractive naked torsos belong only to those who spend long hours at the gym. In this issue, men are doing the gazing, and seeing a complicated range of maleness.
As we were putting the issue together, the Brexit vote had just passed and the Orlando nightclub shooting had occurred. Jason Rider, T’s senior fashion editor, who styled both 