
This theory of the state underlies media and state reporting of political protest, in which violence is always invoked to disqualify the grievances of protesters. In the 1960s, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was able to to use media coverage of disproportionate violence against nonresisting demonstrators in Birmingham or Selma to convey his message as a form of martyrdom. He wrote: “we’ll wear you down by our capacity to suffer…we will so appeal to your heart and conscience that we will win you in the process.”
Today, if police dogs attack demonstrators, it is no longer national news. Ironically, the example of King himself, so often vilified as a traitor and a Communist in his lifetime, is used to berate today’s protesters with the demand for nonviolence, meaning compliance with police instructions. King never intended nonviolence to mean compliance with the state. But when the term violence is used, it now signifies a moral and political failing by the “people,” those not authorized to use force. Whenever Palestinians protest against the occupation of their land, the response in some quarters is always to call it violent, no matter what has happened. So I find myself avoiding the term altogether in relation to protests.
What activists then did in the U.S. was to create a performative form of protest that insisted we not look away but consider over and over again what had happened. “Hands Up, Don’t Shoot” calls our attention to the instant before the definitive violence, a moment where a reasonable person (to use legal phrasing) could and should have decided against shooting, for example, 12-year-old Tamir Rice. By performing this collectively, it also became a challenge to the police, saying in effect, “you don’t dare to shoot, there are too many of us.”
The mass “die-in,” an action appropriated from earlier movements in which protesters mime death as a group, further emphasizes that all are potential targets. Performed death, a visual act, makes each person appear vulnerable, but simultaneously creates a sense of freedom as you rest your body with others in spaces where you never normally are at rest. Both these forms of protest create what I call a “persistent looking,” a repeated return to the place of loss so that it is possible to move past the first shock of violence to an understanding of the systemic violence that brought it about.
By comparison, the pictures of the body of Aylan Kurdi, the 3-year-old drowned Syrian toddler who washed up on a Turkish beach, broke through the shield that we all create in what the German philosopher Walter Benjamin called “the optical unconscious.” An outpouring of grief in the West made it seem as if we were seeing refugees die for the first time, although such drownings have been common for decades. The picture of a Turkish policeman carrying his body resonated because of its association (whether conscious or not) with the Christian image known as the pietà, in which the Virgin Mary carries the body of the dead Christ. We looked at Aylan’s body and realized that he had indeed died for our sins.
A few months later, however, Britain voted to leave the European Union, largely because of intense resentment of all immigrants, including refugees. Here, then, is the dilemma. Certain images have the capacity to break through the defenses of our optical unconscious, but precisely because that unconscious is a way of dealing with the intense violence of modern life, it seals over quickly. When these moments occur, change results only if people organize around the general principle that such images convey.
Black Lives Matter has done this. But in the case of Aylan Kurdi, while efforts were made for individual refugees, no general case for immigration and asylum was effectively promoted after his death. Still less did Western media outlets turn to the Kurdish community for understanding.
Within these activist communities online, people often speak of being connected by love. This love is not romantic love between individuals but the collective bond that Dr. King called “the beloved community.” For his colleague and friend Grace Lee Boggs, the result was what she called “visionary organizing.” Such organizing thinks about how to make a life, not make a living. These exchanges are horizontal, requiring a good deal of time and energy to sustain. But they can make change.
The negative alternative is simply following. Nine million people now follow 
These are times for visionary organizing, not outraged reposting.
However, it is becoming apparent that present-day politics cannot easily be configured around the demand for what 
There have been two notable responses to the breakdown of the space of appearance. Former protesters and the disillusioned have either set out to create a new politics of appearance or they have reacted by looking for groups to blame.
From the Zapatistas to the global Occupy project and today’s Nuit Debout movement in France, the politics of appearance is no longer about submitting a petition to power, but instead organizing so that people can appear to each other. That means suspending the regulation of the space of appearance by norms, above all the norms of racial hierarchy, and then refusing to move on out of that space. I believe that is why Black Lives Matter has acted to disrupt all the major presidential campaigns in 2016. It is seeking to form a new manner of being “political,” a new way to see and be seen in the world.
But the other possibility, the blaming of other groups, is a reaction to a sense of powerlessness. As we have seen in the past, these reactions are not correlated to factual evidence or even specific local experience. The Brexit vote was above all motivated by a hostility to immigration. But those voting on these grounds often live in places with low immigration, just as anti-Semitism in the past did not result from proximity to Jewish people.
“Take back control” in Britain and “Make America great again” are, then, calls for a re-regulation of the space of appearance to exclude certain groups.
When Trump speaks of a wall, his followers understand this to mean both a physical structure (which may or may not actually be constructed) and, more importantly, a conceptual exclusion from participation.
There is no “common ground” between the politics of appearance and those of exclusion. In the United States, as the Black Lives Matter co-founder Alicia Garza has noted, “when black people get free, everybody gets free.” Which means that unless black people get free, nobody gets free. Until and unless there is a politics of recognition that might form a new space of appearance that is not structured on exclusion, there will be no liberation.
But the resurgent politics of exclusion sometimes overwhelms our sense of that necessity. We seek expedient solutions and look to established leaders. Brexit showed that the defense of what W.E.B. Du Bois called the psychological “wage” of whiteness, its relative privileges, was more important to the majority population than actual economics. If Hillary Clinton fails to realize that it is no longer “the economy, stupid,” a second reactionary victory might occur.
Talk of tolerance and diversity has failed. The urgent task at hand, especially for people who are not themselves black, is to construct an anti-racist politics that is a common good. As Dr. King long ago realized, such politics can only work in tandem with anti-poverty and antiwar strategies. In the end, it comes down to this: When we see another person, do we see them as another human being, not just equal to us in law, but someone that we can listen to, learn from and fall in love with? Or not?