
LONDON — Almost to the day, in August 2009, 
It seems harder to be silly now.
By long tradition in what was once called Fleet Street, August was the apex of the absurd. It was a time when newspaper pages, bereft of hard news, yawned open to devour tales of, say, 
The digitalized heirs to that legacy have not lost their fondness for stories whose lightness of being seems only to enhance their ability to titillate. Consider the attention accruing since the weekend over 
But, compared with the not-too-distant days of Benson, a 64-pound carp found mysteriously dead at a fishery in the English Midlands, the silly season seems more ambiguous, challenged by atrocities that redefine the theater of the absurd as the spectacle of the macabre.
“The idea of silliness requires shared assumptions about what is sensible,” 
This year, the centennial of the Battle of the Somme, will most likely be recalled as a time when the slaughter of trench warfare found its echo in the spread of terror.
My colleague Steven Erlanger wrote about what some are calling 
Indeed, the banality of the weaponry has magnified the brutality of attacks in France and Germany that left many in Europe and beyond looking over their shoulder.
Barrel bombs tear through 
There has been a deep shift, too, in how the news is framed and broadcast. In the past, the silly season lay within the fief of the mainstream media, calibrated to the calendar of mainstream politicians whose long vacations closed Parliament and stilled their fractious debate.
But politics has been sidestepped by populism. The checks and balances of parliamentary democracy have given way to rule by numbers. 
As Britain’s 
The emblems of this season of unease and unpredictability have been relayed in the jittery, jerky images of cellphone cameras and video streaming apps that tell only an unmediated fraction of the story.
When an 18-year-old German of Iranian descent 
Instead, the gunman was identified as a disturbed 18-year-old, 
Even seven years ago, Benson the carp competed for space with darker news of fallen soldiers in Afghanistan and elsewhere. As the article in this space concluded: “No silliness there at all.”
Then or now.