
LONDON — The croissant, the buttery breakfast pastry, means “crescent” in French. But don’t tell that to the British.
Tesco, Britain’s largest supermarket chain and a bellwether of sorts for popular tastes, is dispensing with the traditional curved pastry as of Friday and instead will sell only straight ones.
The company offered a decidedly British rationale: It is easier to spread jam on the straight variety.
The banishing of the crescent-shaped croissant spurred no shortage of dismay on both sides of the English Channel.
“Is this a foretaste of Brexit?” 
The editorial added: “Otherwise nature is outraged, floods will again sweep the land and murrains strike our cattle. Or we could just stick with toast.”
Justifying the move away from curved croissants, Tesco’s croissant buyer, Harry Jones, cited what he called the “spreadability factor.” He said that sales of crescent-shaped croissants had been falling.
“The majority of shoppers find it easier to spread jam, or their preferred filling, on a straighter shape with a single sweeping motion,” he said in a statement. “With the crescent-shaped croissants, it’s more fiddly, and most people can take up to three attempts to achieve perfect coverage, which increases the potential for accidents involving sticky fingers and tables.”
But in a week when Prime Minister David Cameron was in Brussels trying to wring concessions from fellow European Union leaders over Britain’s future in the 28-member bloc, The Times of London called the timing of the “
Still, for all the fuss about breaching French tradition, 
“I can understand the importance of symbolism and tradition, but straight croissants are more practical to make,” Mr. Turquier said by telephone from Paris.
While the croissant is associated with France, the pastry originated in what is now Austria, as a crescent-shaped roll called a kipferl.
Origin myths abound; one 
According to Heather Arndt Anderson’s “
Some observers took to Twitter to express their disbelief that British jam-spreaders were unable to navigate a traditional croissant’s curved edges. “Utterly preposterous. Croissants are curved traditionally. Must be another EU directive!” 