
NEW DELHI — Nandan Nilekani, a co-founder of one of India’s biggest information technology services companies, is an older billionaire but a young investor. In his nearly 30 years of starting and then building up Infosys, he did not have the time to focus on investing anywhere else, he said. Not to mention that most of his wealth was tied up in the company.
His next step was public service, as he set up India’s unique identification system, where, once again, he did not have the luxury to think about personal investments. Now that he is finally a free man at the age of 61, he is more focused on what to do with his money.
Mr. Nilekani says he is concerned about the bad debt piling up on the balance sheets of banks in India, but he worries more about an increase in anti-globalization sentiment.
“Between ‘Brexit’ and Trump, are we entering a world that’s less enchanted with globalization?” he asked. His concern is because of his continuing investment in Infosys, which has a strong global exposure with nearly 90 percent of its revenue coming from the United States and Europe.
But Mr. Nilekani is betting on India. “Enormous aspirations have been unleashed,” he said. “And there’s a huge hunger to improve lives,” which he said had inspired him. “The question is if we as a nation can provide that opportunity to everyone.”
Being true to his I.T. services roots, he is more interested in services than in the manufacturing sector. Manufacturing, he says, is vulnerable to automation and Chinese overcapacity. (In the last few years, several Indian companies of all sizes have complained about the dumping of goods by their Chinese competitors in sectors as varying as steel, solar power equipment and tires.)
While he has some of his money in real estate and debt, most of it is in equity. But he is investing 5 percent of his large pie in start-ups.
“I’m a believer in technology-led disruption,” Mr. Nilekani said. In the next 20 years, he said, a large part of the Indian economy will go from the unorganized or informal sector to the organized and formal sector. “I’m looking for technology that can do that,” he added.
He thinks he might have found a few. One of his recent investments is in 10i Commerce Services, an e-commerce company that, through its ShopX app, is recruiting small neighborhood businesses to sell their products online (nearly 40,000 retailers in 180 towns have signed up).
“Technology can be used to organize India,” Mr. Nilekani said. “About 80 to 85 percent of Indian retail sales are done through mom-and-pop shops, so aggregating them makes a lot of sense.” Some of these entrepreneurs, he said, are “trying to go into the root of what’s happening in the country and see if tech or new tools can make a difference.”
He is also optimistic about Fortigo Network Logistics, which has developed technology that lets truck drivers and owners, as well as brokers and transport companies, look for cargo for their next destination at the best rates possible. It is a sort of Uber for truckers, with cargo as the passenger.
Mr. Nilekani has a couple of guidelines he follows as he looks for investments: the quality of the entrepreneur and how susceptible a sector or the company is to domestic policy, which can vacillate depending upon the political whims of the party in power.
“One thing I’ve realized in the last two years is that the quality of the entrepreneur is key,” he said. “Good ideas are common. Many people have ideas, but the ability to execute and make a strategy is relatively rare.”