
Politics. The good news is that globalization really has, on average, made the world a better place for most people. Not for everyone, but on average, it has helped people who didn’t have opportunities. It helped take hundreds of millions, if not billions, out of poverty. That’s long term. Short term, there is an incredible backlash in this country and in Europe and pretty much every country in Asia. You see regimes that are more reactionary and defensive in nature. It’s a reaction to globalization and technology.
You do what we do, which is to spend time working on political thinking and ideas. You come up with ideas and build bridges. From an investment standpoint, you can take one of two views — you can say the political backlash is going to win and you stop investing. Or you say to yourself, globalization is going to win and you keep investing. I take the second one. I’m an optimist.
I spend less and less time on investments. We’re moving more and more to an endowment model — long term, more passive. If you want to do something well, it’s hard to do a number of things well. The only area I’m actually interested in being more active is technology. It’s more to learn than make returns. If you’re not close to what’s happening in technology, you don’t really understand where the world is going.
The biggest opportunities are going to be — and it sounds a little too obvious — in two areas. One, you have a part of the world that used to not be part of the economy but has become part of it, as a contributor and an actor and a consumer. All the so-called emerging countries — these are huge opportunities. The other is technology. Technology destroys jobs, but it creates new ones. But it also compresses costs. That’s a big political and social issue.
Hopefully, we make good progress with the institute. The institute works on things that are hard. That’s one reason we exist. It’s not like looking at things with specific milestones. In California, we’ve changed the referendum system.
Referendums have become incredibly powerful, as you saw with “Brexit” and Colombia’s vote against peace. Referendums have been hijacked by populists. It doesn’t look like it from the outside, but referendums are the most structurally important systemic tool that California has for governance.
If everything is too political, people lose faith, and that’s what you see in the United States and Europe.