
When Archie Panjabi makes her entrance on NBC’s “
As Kalinda Sharma, her Emmy-winning private detective on CBS’s “The Good Wife,” Ms. Panjabi was famous for her boots: towering-heeled, over-the-knee, black-leather numbers that telegraphed inscrutability and sexual boldness.
Now, as Nas — an anagram of N.S.A., or National Security Agency, where she heads a secret department investigating the tattooed Jane (
After departing “The Good Wife” amid rumors of a feud with Julianna Margulies and getting rattled by earthquakes in “San Andreas” last year, Ms. Panjabi yearned for some action. And that required the appropriate footwear. “We went through 100 pairs, but somehow wearing heeled shoes for the N.S.A.-F.B.I. didn’t feel right,” the British-born Ms. Panjabi, 44, said.
In an interview at 30 Rockefeller Plaza in Manhattan, her posture perfect and diction precise, Ms. Panjabi — who lives among New York, Los Angeles and London — talked about returning to network television and saying goodbye to Kalinda. These are edited excerpts from the conversation.
There are definitely similarities, but there are also differences. Nas doesn’t use sex as a weapon, at least up till now. Kalinda was immensely sexual, and there was a lot of fascination with her sexuality. And Nas is fiercely protective of her team, but she’s also got this wild, unpredictable side. She’s there to heal the wounds, but I’m sure along the way she causes a few.
It’s basically the government versus this so-called terrorist organization. So you’ve got these two worlds going on, and it’s gray, as a lot of things are.
I couldn’t have asked for a better role to break into American TV. People loved that character, and I got a lot of love in return.
Two months ago, I did a political satire [“Power Monkeys,” shown in Britain] about Brexit. We’d turn up, and the writers would give us dialogue based on the news, and we had like 10 minutes to learn it and to go on set. And it would be broadcast when you got home that night. It was terrifying. I felt the same thing with “Blindspot,” which moves incredibly fast.
You have cameramen on these little chairs that roll around, so while you’re talking about saving America, they’re dancing around in the background. The first day, I found it hilarious.
[Laughs] It was meant tongue in cheek. I did the interview in England, and of course our sense of humor is a little bit different. There was a part of me that was joking, “Oh my gosh, I think I’ve played Kalinda for too long now because I’m taking control!”
I just feel the show’s finished now, and it’s time to move on.
She came a mystery and she left a mystery, and I think people were always intrigued by that.
When I unzipped the boots, it felt so right. I had reached a stage of closure. I loved that character, and I’m often asked, “Would you come back to do the spinoff?” But I don’t know about stepping back into those boots. I don’t know if I could do it.