
The last time the Shakespeare Theater of New Jersey presented “Coriolanus” was in 1987. The company’s 
The tragedy of a highhanded leader who proves to be fatally out of touch with society, “Coriolanus” is infrequently performed, probably because its title figure is a relatively disagreeable character.
Caius Martius — subsequently called “Coriolanus” for conquering the city of Corioli — is a warrior of noble heritage who expects to lead Rome during its earliest days as a republic. But even as this hero seeks the consulship that he assumes is his due, he is openly scornful of the masses. The bluff-mannered Coriolanus dismisses them as “the mutable, rank-scented many.”
The resentful mob is eventually stirred up by the tribunes, their spokesmen, to banish Coriolanus from Rome. The warrior then allies with his former enemies to strike back at his homeland.
For all of his hotheaded temperament, Coriolanus is depicted as a man of personal modesty and candor whose frank distrust of the general public — and its fickle opinions — proves to be justified. “Why did you wish me milder?” 
Shakespeare’s political drama, of a candidate for high office unsuccessfully coping with seesawing public opinion, assumes fresh resonance in our own interesting times that witness 
Certainly the most effective and exciting scenes in this revival, directed by Brian B. Crowe, are those in which the boisterous common people of Rome collide with the senators and upper classes.
Mr. Crowe and Tristan Raines, the costume designer, dress the characters in stylized mid-20th-century clothes; the aristocracy are garbed mostly in bright whites, while the lower orders wear plebeian black and gray, augmented by red trimmings that increase as they grow more powerful. Mr. Crowe at times directs the commoners to repeat key phrases, as in the tumultuous conclusion of the production’s first part, when they angrily chant “The people are the city” while the senators hastily retreat.
Some of the clothes and decorative features amid Dick Block’s single setting, like a metallic eagle in flight, vaguely suggest fascist circumstances. Mr. Block’s expansive set employs a monumental double door and broad flights of steps to facilitate the play’s nearly nearly cinematic changes in location, which are further delineated by Andrew Hungerford’s lighting and Karin Graybash’s clangorous sound effects.
Although Greg Derelian’s surly facial and vocal expressions as Coriolanus seem a bit obvious, his rugged physicality and unflagging vigor fuse into a sturdy portrayal of a curmudgeonly hero. He is supported by Jacqueline Antaramian as Coriolanus’s coolly self-possessed mother and by Bruce Cromer as a sagacious old friend. An intense, leonine Michael Schantz makes the well-spoken utmost of his scenes as Aufidius, Coriolanus’s bitterest foe.
The rabble who overthrow Coriolanus and live to regret it are sparked by Mike Magliocca as a fiery citizen, and fueled by John Ahlin and Corey Tazmania as the officious tribunes, whose sly machinations ultimately jeopardize their own community.
If several among the other performances are wanting, the combined effectiveness of the 25-member company is greater than the sum of its lesser parts. The director’s decision to have the actors frequently throng the theater’s aisles lends immediacy and a sense of speed to this resonant production, which sprints along at a fast-paced two hours and 35 minutes, including the intermission.