
The recent presidential election inspired a notable amount of accessorizing, with 
The latest political fashion statement? The safety pin, an object that’s been adopted in the past by statement-making celebrities (remember 
After the election of Donald J. Trump, fears are growing that segments of his base may physically or emotionally abuse minorities, immigrants, women and members of the L.G.B.T. community. As a show of support, groups of people across America are attaching safety pins to their lapels, shirts and dresses to signify that they are linked, willing to stand up for the vulnerable.
“It’s a matter of showing people who get it that I will always be a resource and an ally to anyone and everyone who wants to reach out,” said Kaye Kagaoan, 24, a graphic designer from the Philippines who lives in Brooklyn. “When I saw it on Facebook, it was so simple. It resonated with me.”
On Friday, the actor 
In wearing the safety pin, participants are taking a page from protesters of the 
The woman, who used a Twitter account, @cheeahs, that has been deleted, had been inspired by the 
Those who’ve donned the pin over the last week are quick to point out that their message isn’t necessarily in opposition to the president-elect. “More than anything, it’s pro-kindness,” said Sabrina Krebs, 22, a Barnard student from Guatemala City. “I wouldn’t say it’s resistance towards Trump. It’s a form of resistance to hate and to negativity.”
It is also, Ms. Krebs noted, a readily accessible item. “Everyone has safety pins in their house,” she said. “It’s something everyone can join.” (But in case someone wants a more haute kind of protest, fashion has already jumped on the movement, with 
And it’s easy to put on. “It doesn’t take much to wear a safety pin,” said Robert Clarke, 52, a truck driver from Harrington Park, N.J. “I have them on several jackets, so I don’t have to think about it.”
Some Twitter users voiced criticisms of the safety-pin trend, calling it “
Wearers responded by acknowledging the critique. “I recognize that wearing a #safetypin is not sufficient action and does not supplement provide active, constructive work,” 
For his part, Mr. Clarke said that the pin isn’t just a signal of allegiance to those he encounters, but a constant reminder to himself. “A big part of wearing it is the mental preparation on my part,” he said. “If I do see something, I’ve thought it through, and I’ll stand up and say something and not be a silent witness.”