
For Italians, who have seen 63 governments in 70 years, the resignation of Prime Minister Matteo Renzi 
Outside of the country, the mood is not so sanguine.
Though financial markets eventually took the news of Mr. Renzi’s resignation in stride, his pending departure 
Italians’ rejection of a reformist leader underlined worries about the country’s commitment to the euro, as well as its banking system, which holds 360 billion euros, or about $385 billion, in suspect debt.
Monte dei Paschi di Siena, a troubled lender, was set to receive €5 billion from private investors. Now, because of the political upheaval, senior bankers have told the bank to prepare for a state bailout, 
“Whatever solution is found for Monte dei Paschi, I believe there is a significant risk of contagion to other Italian banks in particular,” Megan Greene, chief economist at Manulife Asset Management, told The Financial Times. (Neil Unmack of Breakingviews lists 
For those outside Italy, it is hardly shocking to see yet another crisis in a southern European country that threatens the 19-country eurozone.
The difference? This one comes as 
“This is a crisis that strikes at the absolute core of the European Union in a way even ‘Brexit’ does not,” said Mujtaba Rahman, the managing director for Europe at the Eurasia Group, a risk consultancy.
“The U.K. was always one foot in and one foot out,” he said. “Italy is a founding member state, fully integrated into the union’s political and economic structure. This is existential for the E.U.”
President-elect Donald J. Trump has lined up some big names for his job creation advisory panel, including Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan Chase and Mary Barra of General Motors.
“Mr. Musk, 45, is arguably the one person in the nation more responsible than anyone else for generating a vision for the re-emergence of manufacturing in the United States en masse,” Mr. Sorkin writes.
He lists some figures regarding Mr. Musk’s companies:
• Nearly 35,000 jobs created
• 6,500 expected to be employed by 2020 at the Tesla Gigafactory, a 5.5-million-square-foot battery factory under construction
• After the factory’s construction, 95 percent of Tesla parts will be made in the United States
Mr. Musk has been called a benefactor of crony capitalism because of the government subsidies Tesla receives, and it’s still uncertain whether his businesses will succeed in the end.
“But it is his kind of businesses — which offer the chance to restore real manufacturing jobs in America, and which integrate meaningful technological innovation — that we should all be encouraging,” Mr. Sorkin writes.
If Avianca Holdings, the second-biggest airline in Latin America, strikes a deal with Delta Air Lines, United Airlines or Copa Airlines of Panama, it will be the result of efforts by the activist hedge fund Elliott Management to 
Better known as a combatant than a diplomat, Elliott became a key part of the negotiations because Avianca’s largest investor, Germán Efromovich, was on the verge of defaulting on hundreds of millions of dollars of loans made by the hedge fund, using his stake in Avianca as collateral.
People who have direct knowledge of the company and negotiations but who were not authorized to speak publicly said that late last week, Delta, United and Copa submitted bids to partner with Avianca. Elliott received copies of at least some of the offers.
On Tuesday, a special committee of Avianca’s board is expected to meet to decide whether to accept a bid or proceed with a new round of bids.
• Goldman Sachs holds its two-day United States Financial Services Conference in New York. Speakers include chief executives of big investment banks like JPMorgan Chase and Bank of America and asset managers like Blackstone.
• The Commerce Department will report data on the trade balance in October. Most analysts are expecting the trade deficit to widen to roughly $42 billion from its $36.4 billion level in September.