
LONDON — It’s common enough, as in the United States just now, for political parties to war internally in the run-up to an election — who will be the candidate, which faction will triumph, what jobs will go to which advisers?
In Britain, however, there is an altogether odder phenomenon — both major parties are at war within themselves after an election, and one that had a surprisingly clear result. In May, 
As Jon Cruddas, a Labour member of Parliament, said tersely: “We lost everywhere to everybody.”
After such a wretched defeat, Labour chose not to move toward the center but further to the left, 
Now Mr. Corbyn is trying to 
Another figure of the hard left, John McDonnell, now the Labour spokesman on economic issues, has urged a wider purge of Labour’s shadow cabinet — the people on his team who would be ministers if the party were in power. Labour legislators who oppose Mr. Corbyn, he has said, are “the new fringe” in Labour politics.
But are they? They were, after all, elected by voters. Mr. McDonnell argues that Mr. Corbyn’s mandate should not be questioned, since it comes from party members and supporters.
But Joe Haines, press secretary during the Labour government of former Prime Minister Harold Wilson, disagrees. “It is the Parliamentary Labour Party that represents the Labour vote in Britain, not the 423,000 people, including the ragbag of ‘registered supporters,’ who voted in the leadership contest,” 
Mr. Corbyn won 251,000 of those votes — about 0.5 percent of the 46 million Britons registered to vote — and about 2.7 percent of the nearly 9.35 million who voted Labour last May. “The strength of the party lies in the nine-million-odd, not the 251,000, and that figure will be dissipated at our peril,” Mr. Haines wrote.
But 
Clearly Mr. Corbyn’s policies and his criticism of inequality and spending cuts are resonating with young people, especially in the bigger cities.
Mr. Corbyn intends to offer Britons a clear choice, but it is one that most political analysts, like Mr. Haines, believe voters will reject.
Perhaps even stranger is the war within the Conservative Party, which is ostensibly over British membership in the European Union. But it is also about the party’s direction and the succession to Mr. Cameron, who has said he will not seek a third term.
In a sense, winning a majority in May has allowed for more internal strife. Mr. Cameron promised a referendum on a “Brexit” only to pacify a strong minority in his party during the election campaign and to undermine the U.K. Independence Party and its anti-Europe, anti-immigrant platform.
If Mr. Cameron loses the vote on European Union membership, he will be under great pressure to resign, and his closest collaborator, George Osborne, the chancellor of the Exchequer, will probably sink with him. Another referendum on Scottish independence would be a given.
High stakes. Mr. Cameron clearly thinks the essential conservatism of Britons will save him. But everything else has become secondary now, 
That choice has been postponed, another effort to keep the Conservatives together until the referendum. Perhaps then, if Mr. Cameron survives, he can begin to move the party to what appears to be a largely empty center ground.