
In the final story in “All That Man Is,” an aging man sits in a cafe in Italy, listening to a 7-year-old girl sing a nursery rhyme. Long retired from an illustrious career in British government, he’s recovering, slowly and uncertainly, from a heart operation. As the girl rhymes her way through the months — “May, fruits and flowers,” she sings, “June, off to the sea” — he ponders an inscription he’s just seen in a nearby abbey: “Amemus eterna et non peritura.” Let us love what is eternal and not what is transient.
It’s a beautiful scene, and a characteristic one in a book constantly reaching for allegory. The publisher calls “All That Man Is” a novel, but there’s very little explicitly interlinking its separate narratives. The stories cohere instead through their single project: an investigation of European manhood. Each of the nine narratives features a different male protagonist hailing (by my count) from seven European countries. Each protagonist is on a journey: an English teenager traveling after graduation through Germany; a Belgian scholar driving to Poland; a Hungarian bodyguard accompanying a prostitute and her pimp in London.
Transient things are the necessary purview of the novel as a genre — the very word “novel” demands it — and Szalay’s pages are full of markers of the current day: iPads, high-speed trains and GPS navigation devices. At the same time, the structure Szalay establishes for the book points to the cyclical, to the rhythmic working of time. The stories are arranged by the ages of their male protagonists, moving from 17 to 73; they also, like the little girl’s song, progress through the calendar year. The first four stories concern themselves with the erotic and its complications; the fifth is preceded by an epigraph from Handel’s “Orlando” — “Lascia Amor e siegui Marte,” declaring a shift in allegiance from love to the god of war.
Conflict, competition and mastery are at the heart of Szalay’s understanding of manhood. In one of the finest stories, a Danish journalist travels to Spain to confront a vacationing government minister with evidence of an extramarital affair. He and the minister have known each other for years; they’ve exchanged favors; they’re nearly friends. But this veneer of amiability is stripped away in the thrill of the kill. “C’est la guerre,” the journalist says repeatedly in defense of his muckraking. For his part, the official insists there’s no legitimate public interest in his private life; the story is “just a way for people like you to have power over people like me.”
Driving from the airport, the journalist passes a bullfighting arena. “All the trappings of modernity,” he thinks, “and in the middle of it . . . slaughter as a spectator sport, as entertainment.” The risk of heaviness in the symbolism, here and elsewhere, is nearly always avoided by Szalay’s prose, which is frequently brilliant, remarkable for its grace and economy. He has a minimalist’s gift for the quick sketch, whether of landscapes or human relationships. He studs his pages with sometimes startlingly lovely ­images, as when crumpled bedsheets are compared to “stiffly whipped egg white.”
In age, class and nationality, Szalay’s protagonists are diverse, but their homogeneity in other respects undercuts the expansiveness of his title. All of his men are white, all are straight (only in the last story is a more complicated sexuality suggested); most important, all of them enjoy a more or less easy sense of ownership over a classic and now outmoded idea of Europe. Though set in the present, there’s a curious absence of reference to the contemporary crises of terrorism or the upheaval caused by mass immigration.
And yet these limitations may be necessary. Szalay’s subject is the loss of prestige afforded a certain kind of European manhood, the spuriousness of its foundations and the ease with which it is threatened. If manhood is an arena of struggle in the midst of civilization — something like that stadium the Danish journalist drives past — the sympathy of these stories lies firmly with the bull. The novel’s characteristic mood is a kind of lambent melancholy, shot through with dark, sometimes savage humor.
“All That Man Is” was published in Britain in April, well before the Brexit referendum. But it has a new urgency now that the post-Cold War dream of a Europe of open borders and broad, shared identity has come under increasing question. The book’s penultimate narrative features a Russian industrialist, a longtime London resident whose business empire spans the continent. From the deck of an opulent yacht, he contemplates his stratospheric rise after the fall of the U.S.S.R. and, thanks to a series of legal and financial disasters, his impending ruin. In a final touch of allegory, the yacht he can no longer afford is called Europa.