
LONDON — Outlining the first, tentative details of how she intends to leave the European Union without damaging Britain’s economy, Prime Minister Theresa May on Monday ruled out the type of immigration curbs championed by prominent supporters of withdrawal before June’s referendum on quitting the bloc.
In a news conference at the 
Mrs. May, who has said little about her strategy for 
Her comments highlight the difficult balancing act she faces now that her favored sound bite — “Brexit means Brexit” — has reached the end of its shelf life. She is facing a growing clamor for clarity on issues like migration curbs and calls to maintain the unfettered access to the European market that many businesses and financial institutions prize.
She received little help on Monday in fleshing out that detail from the minister responsible for negotiating Britain’s exit, David Davis. Speaking to Parliament, he provided few details, but he argued that Mrs. May had rejected a points-based immigration system because it was “too open-ended.” He added that Britain’s new plans might be “more rigorous.”
Britain has started the clock on leaving the European Union, and will be out of the bloc by March 2019. Here is how “Brexit” has affected business so far.
Mr. Davis said he wanted to build a “national consensus” around a negotiating position for Brexit but added that the government in Scotland — where voters largely favored remaining in the European Union — would not be given a veto over withdrawal.
“We will, by the end of this process, have left the European Union, and put the sovereignty and supremacy of this Parliament beyond doubt,” he said.
The government’s halting efforts were ridiculed by its opponents. “This Govt really is up 
As a member of the European Union, Britain is part of Europe’s single market of around 500 million people but, as a quid pro quo, accepts the free movement of workers across national frontiers.
Many employers want to keep the right to recruit foreign workers, and one business federation, the Institute of Directors, said a points-based system, already used by Britain for non-European migrants, was “hopelessly bureaucratic, governed by 13 different acts of Parliament and creating 1,400 categories of immigrant.”
But curbing immigration from the European mainland was one of the main demands of the Leave campaign, and on Monday, Nigel Farage, the former leader of the pro-Brexit U.K. Independence Party, criticized Mrs. May’s dismissal of the points-based immigration system.
Other critics complain that several pledges from the Leave campaign that persuaded voters to support withdrawal — including a promise of millions of pounds a week in health care spending — now lie in tatters, suggesting that the British people were misled.
Britain’s financial and military connections to the rest of Europe.
Yet the greater unknown is whether foreign-owned manufacturers and financial institutions will abandon Britain if Brexit restricts their access to European markets or leads to import or export tariffs with the Continent.
Those worries were underscored in a blunt warning, made public on Sunday, from Japan, which said its companies might move some operations if Brexit was mishandled.
“Japanese businesses with their European headquarters in the U.K. may decide to transfer their head-office function to Continental Europe if E.U. laws cease to be applicable in the U.K. after its withdrawal,” said 
Aside from a steep fall in the British pound, the economic fallout from the vote has so far been less pronounced than critics had predicted, and on Monday there was positive survey data from the important services sector.
However, ministers are aware that these are early days and that Britain has yet to start formal negotiations on its exit, something Mrs. May has said will not happen before next year. In an interview broadcast Sunday, Mrs. May also sought to manage expectations by telling the BBC that Britain needs to be prepared for some “difficult times” and that the withdrawal will not be “plain sailing.”
But while British lawmakers on Monday also discussed a petition, signed by more than four million people, demanding a fresh vote, the government adamantly opposed a second referendum.
Mr. Davis told Parliament that there must be “no attempt to delay, frustrate or thwart the will of the British people” and “no attempt to engineer a second referendum because some people didn’t like the first answer.”