
A few days before the vote, the art magazine Frieze asked artists and curators to speak their minds on Britain’s place in Europe — 
The affecting retrospective 
Running through this artist’s work is a passion for the British underground, particularly its music subcultures, which Mr. Leckey examines with both a sociologist’s diligence and a diarist’s nakedness. Born near Liverpool in 1964, Mr. Leckey came of age as Damien Hirst, Tracey Emin, Marc Quinn and others found fame under an umbrella designation as Young British Artists. But Mr. Leckey preferred rave nights and obscure vinyl, and sat out that media-confected jamboree. After a few years in New York, he returned to London and was invited to contribute to a show at the Institute of Contemporary Arts on music videos, a genre he found more engaging than most visual art.
The result was 
Mr. Leckey stuck with music with his “Sound System” sculptures, totemlike stacks of speakers, amps and buffers that burble out snippets of vocals, beats and bodily sounds. But by the mid-2000s his approach had grown more omnivorous, and his art began to recycle and reconstitute fine art, popular culture and his own past as elements of a single, undifferentiated stream of content. Lecture-performances such as 
In 2013, Mr. Leckey’s practice of aggregating high and low culture drove him to organize an ornery exhibition, 
Recently, Mr. Leckey has veered back to autobiographical territory. A room-filling sculpture of a Liverpool highway overpass, and a hallway illuminated by sallow yellow lamps used to illuminate British motorways, transform the galleries of PS1 into memory palaces of his northern English childhood. There is also a crepuscular LED display of Britain’s national power grid; watching the lights go out across the island gives a frisson of the Brexit-induced ruin to come.
Most impressive is “Dream English Kid 1964-1999 AD,” which limns the artist’s youth primarily through scraps of video discovered online. We see record shops, washed-out public housing, a shadow walking through London’s Soho; we see clips of Joy Division, the Manchester-born band Mr. Leckey worships; we see the same highway overpass we encountered as sculpture, which on screen appears in a fog-bestrewn black-and-white like something out of “The Third Man.” As in “Fiorucci Made Me Hardcore,” this aching new video gains its power through shrewd editing and a lightly worn nostalgia. Unlike “Fiorucci,” this one was made largely through YouTube and other digital sources; what appears to be first-person is actually made of others’ lives.
The melancholy “Dream English Kid” may not have the outward-facing joy of “Fiorucci,” nor the exacting wit of his cabinet of curiosities. But it’s one of Mr. Leckey’s best works. It captures, more than anything before, the gravid, intoxicating atmosphere of Britain in the 1990s that nurtured the most consequential generation of British artists of the last century. Brexit has made the video doubly nostalgic, not only for the last days of analog culture, but for an open, imaginative Britain that has not yet shot itself in the foot.