
BRUSSELS — Secretary of State John Kerry criticized Russia on Tuesday for pointedly ignoring the Syrian government’s use of chlorine gas and barrel bombs against its own citizens, and he left little hope for an early resumption of talks with Russia about a cease-fire.
Speaking here before the opening of a conference on Afghanistan organized by the European Union, Mr. Kerry said that the United States would continue efforts to end the fighting in Syria through the United Nations, but that Washington had little hope of persuading Russia to give up its unqualified support of the government of President Bashar al-Assad of Syria.
The Obama administration announced on Monday that it was 
In a private meeting with Syrians, the secretary of state expressed frustration with Russia, the Obama administration’s failure to back diplomacy with force, and the shrinking prospects for a cease-fire. Listen to his conversation.
“We acknowledge in sorrow — and, I have to tell you, outrage — that Russia has turned a blind eye to Assad’s deplorable use of chlorine gas and barrel bombs against his people,” Mr. Kerry said. “Together, the Syrian regime and Russia have rejected diplomacy and seem to have chosen instead to continue their pursuit of a military victory over the broken bodies, bombed-out hospitals and traumatized children of a long-suffering land.”
Mr. Kerry’s speech, at an event hosted by the German Marshall Fund of the United States, focused mainly on trans-Atlantic cooperation between the United States and the European Union. Noting concerns about 
“As much as some of us may wish the U.K. vote had gone the other way, the lesson we must take from this democratic choice is not that we need less Europe or less U.K.” Mr. Kerry said. “Rather, we all need more of both.”
He added: “The United States will support its friends and allies on both sides of the channel as you work through the tough issues ahead. But we will not be shy about where our interests lie: We need the strongest possible E.U., the strongest possible U.K., and a highly integrated, collaborative relationship between them.”