
After opening her general election advertising campaign focusing on her record of working with families and children, Hillary Clinton has pivoted to foreign policy, releasing two new ads criticizing Donald J. Trump’s lack of experience.
One of them, titled 
“While Donald Trump was watching the shows,” a narrator says, Mrs. Clinton, the former secretary of state, “negotiated a cease-fire in Gaza, a reduction of nuclear weapons, took on Vladimir Putin, and stood up against the trafficking of human beings.”
She is shown inspecting troops, descending from Air Force One, speaking to the news media with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel and sitting across from a sullen-looking Mr. Putin.
Left unsaid is Mr. Trump’s seemingly 
A companion ad mocks Mr. Trump for saying in another interview that for foreign policy advice, “I’m speaking with myself because I have a very good brain.” And 
The ad’s focus on Mrs. Clinton’s experience, quietly positing her as the steady hand the nation needs to steer it through a stormy time, effectively lands as a deft response to last week’s traumatic shootings, without directly politicizing them.
Changing channels ...
In a two-minute 
“I got elected by my Democratic state in a landslide,” Mr. Johnson says. “Ditto,” Mr. Weld chimes in, shrugging his shoulders.
Playing up their chemistry, the two finish one another’s sentences. “We’ve been there,” says Mr. Johnson. “And done that,” Mr. Weld adds.
The ad closes with the two candidates finally in the same frame. “What say, America — you in?” Mr. Johnson asks. “C’monnnn,” Mr. Weld growls.
Indicting Republican congressional candidates for their association with Mr. Trump, a new ad from the 
A narrator says that House Republicans are no better, by serving as sidekicks to Mr. Trump and his harsh tactics, then asks, rhetorically: “Shouldn’t they really be standing up to the bully?”
“Privileged Patrick.” The moniker sounds Trumpian, but it is actually the work of the 
But Mr. Trump might not endorse all the group’s tactics: A video it released earlier in the race ridicules the old show “Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous,” featuring a narrator with, at best, a passible 