
LONDON — It has been 10 years since the cool white minimalism and electric-current physicality of Wayne McGregor’s “
A decade later, Mr. McGregor is in demand by ballet companies 
There are others. Mr. McGregor’s visceral movement — full of fractured angles, scissoring legs, undulating upper bodies and extreme articulations — provides an often salutary contrast to the Royal Ballet’s traditionalism. The physical challenges of his work, his interest in the world of ideas, his curiosity, collaborations and energy have all enriched the dancers.
The triple bill — “Chroma,” “Multiverse” and “Carbon Life,” running through Saturday — suggests all of that, but it also reveals some of the characteristic weaknesses of Mr. McGregor’s work. The movement is fascinating, unexpected and virtuosic. But it is all too often without the structural underpinning that organizes the viewer’s eye, so that the intricacy and detail get lost in a blur of relentless activity. Intriguing ideas often remain the province of program essays rather than imbuing the dance.
“Chroma,” newly energized at these performances by the participation of members of the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater (which has the ballet in its 
In “Chroma,” Mr. McGregor shows an ability to parse his material in ways that are easy to read, evolving between duets, solos and ensemble sections, with just enough speed, surprise and sensory overload to feel thrilling.
He is less successful in “
In the second section of “It’s Gonna Rain,” 14 dancers pour onto the stage, shaped in a V by grid-patterned walls that then fill with fragmented images of Théodore Géricault’s “
The final part is set to “Runner,” a calmly luminous orchestral piece with the pulsating, propulsive rhythms that animate much of Mr. Reich’s music. Here, colored lights play across the grid, and a line of dancers spools in silhouette along one wall (reminiscent of Jerome Robbins’s “Glass Pieces”), as duets, trios and larger groupings mutate center stage. But this section only really comes to life at the end, as three women dance to the gradually thinning notes of the music, still moving as silence — and the curtain — falls.
There are clearly ideas in here that Mr. McGregor and Mr. Rana hope to evoke — the plight of refugees, perhaps even climate change or “Brexit” or the unpredictability of political change — which the dance itself does not suggest. “Multiverse” is uneven and flawed, but it is also challenging and ambitious; qualities that ballet needs and that Mr. McGregor can be counted on to provide.