
BERLIN — The Soviet Union was a giant on the stage of the 20th century. In this city at the heart of the last century’s drama its presence lingers — in the Soviet War Memorial in the Tiergarten (80,000 Soviet soldiers died in the Battle of Berlin); in the vast memorial and military cemetery in Treptower Park; in the graffiti scrawled by Soviet soldiers on the walls of the Reichstag; in the fragments of the Wall that cut off the Soviet imperium’s captive masses. Yet, a quarter-century ago, the Soviet Union vanished from the map.
No foreign army conquered it. No massive uprising overran it. No economic implosion swallowed it. One of the world’s two superpowers simply ceased to be. The unthinkable occurred. A vast empire put itself out of existence and turned out the lights.
Berlin, as the author Kati Marton put it, is “the capital of the unimaginable.” Hitler, the vulgar buffoon, was ridiculed but took the world down with him. Almost nobody foresaw 
There is no better place to ponder all that cannot possibly happen until it does.
There is no better juncture, either. The foundations of the postwar world born from the rubble of Berlin are trembling. The old is dying, the new too inchoate to decipher. The politics of America mystify the world.
From Germany’s “zero hour” in 1945 there emerged in due course two institutions — NATO and the European Union — that together ushered Germany from its shame and Europe from its repetitive self-immolation. They cemented the United States as a European power. They fashioned European security and prosperity through unity.
Now NATO and the E.U. are questioned, even ridiculed. Forces of disintegration are on the march.
In less than two weeks, 
Conditions seem ripe. Europe is increasingly unloved, its miracle too dull to be appreciated. For President Vladimir Putin of Russia, the disintegration of the European Union would be sweet revenge for the fall of the Soviet Union. He will probe. For populist anti-European politicians from the Netherlands to France — friends of Putin all — a British exit would offer open season for fantasies of drum-beating nationalist fragmentation.
The 
The financial turmoil that would accompany a leave vote could spark destabilizing contagion. As refugees continue to flow into Europe, anti-immigrant politicians from Donald Trump in the United States to the National Front leader Marine Le Pen in France would benefit. Trump 
The departure of Britain would magnify German dominance of the European Union, accentuating anti-German sentiment and upsetting the balance between liberal northern European economies and more statist Mediterranean models.
A British exit would be devastating, not least for Britain, whose own union of 
But the unimaginable must be taken seriously if it is to be averted. The Soviet Union proved vulnerable to being unloved. A season of anger is upon the West.
Berlin is a monument to the triumph of liberty. The city is also a monument to realpolitik, the kind that made Stalin an ally before the Iron Curtain descended. I listened the other evening at the American Academy in Berlin as 
Realpolitik and idealism meet in the unity of Europe. The unthinkable, on both sides of the Atlantic, must be resisted before it is too late.