
When interest rates drop noticeably, astute homeowners react quickly, as they’ve been doing in the weeks following Britain’s 
In the week after the vote, 
Refinancing can be a way to cut monthly payments, if rates fall considerably below a homeowner’s original mortgage rate. It can also help in other ways, enabling homeowners to pay down debt more quickly on a shorter-term loan or tap into equity for home improvements and other needs. And available equity has grown in recent years, thanks to rising home values: Some 38 million homeowners now have at least 20 percent equity in their homes, worth an average of $116,000, 
But figuring out whether it makes sense for you requires considering a number of factors. “The key question is, how long am I going to be in the home?” said Erin Lantz, the vice president of mortgages for Zillow. “Am I confident that I am going to hold the mortgage longer than it takes for me to cover my closing costs?”
Closing costs for refinancing (detailed on the “loan estimate” form lenders must provide) vary considerably from state to state, but typically fall within 1 percent to 5 percent of the loan amount. In New York City, figure roughly $5,500 to $8,000 for a condo or single-family home (slightly more on loans over $1.5 million) and $3,000 for a co-op, said Rolan Shnayder, a senior loan officer and partner in the Shnayder/Rosen team for 
Those calculations were key to Brian H. Vendig’s refinancing decision earlier this year. Mr. Vendig, 40, the president and managing executive of 
This time around, Mr. Vendig said, they lowered their rate by nearly a full percentage point by refinancing into a 10/1 adjustable-rate mortgage: For the first 10 years, their rate is fixed at 3.125 percent, and then it shifts to a variable rate that adjusts annually. This structure made sense for them, because with two children, ages 2 and 5, they expect to outgrow their 2,100-square-foot space and move to a bigger home well before a decade is up. And the savings generated by the transaction will offset their closing costs — which were somewhere between $2,000 and $3,000, he said — within two years.
“We definitely could have done a 5/1 or 7/1 ARM,” Mr. Vendig said. “But we felt more comfortable with giving ourselves a couple more years to make an educated decision” about where to move.
For homeowners who plan to stay put, adjustable-rate mortgages may not be the best way to go. But with interest rates so low, even fixed-rate mortgages are appealingly low at the moment — well under 4 percent. While they have risen a little since the post-Brexit low, as of July 26, the average for a 30-year fixed-rate refinance was 3.45 percent, and 2.74 percent for a 15-year fixed-rate refinance, according to 
Astrid Hanenkamp, 45, was pleasantly surprised to find that she could do significantly better than the 4 percent fixed-rate mortgage she carried on her two-bedroom co-op in the 
Ms. Hanenkamp said she felt more comfortable sticking with a longer-term loan with a lower monthly payment because she has no plans to move — she married last year and is perfectly happy where she is — and wants the peace of mind of knowing she can cover her mortgage. And in any case, she added, “if I have extra money, I can always apply it to the principal” as an extra payment.
Refinancing a co-op is less expensive than refinancing other kinds of residential property, Mr. Roth pointed out: Because co-ops are not classified as real property, some closing costs like title insurance do not apply. Still, borrowers may be limited in what they can do. “Some co-ops may only allow fixed-rate products, or they may have very tight guidelines when it comes to cash-out and maximum LTVs,” he said, referring to the loan-to-value, or the percentage of the property that is mortgaged.
Another condition specific to New Yorkers: Homeowners may seek an exemption from the state’s hefty mortgage recording tax when refinancing an existing mortgage, since they already paid it once. (Co-op owners do not have to pay the tax at all.) But if they are switching lenders, they must request that the existing lender assign, or transfer, the mortgage to the new lender through what is called a Consolidation, Extension and Modification Agreement (CEMA).
The vast majority of lenders are willing to do that, but 
Another thing to consider: Borrowers who are well into a 30-year mortgage should try to shorten the term of the new mortgage when they refinance, if they can afford to do so and plan to stay put, said David Edwards, the president of 
Sanjay Tillu, 52, thought along those lines when refinancing a house he owns as a rental investment in 
Now, working with Mr. Prom of HomeBridge Financial Services, Mr. Tillu, the chief financial officer for an importer and manufacturer of home goods, is refinancing into a 15-year loan at the far better rate of 3.37 percent. “I may pay $150 to $200 more a month, but because the property is fetching me good revenue, I don’t mind,” said Mr. Tillu, who is hoping to close on the loan in the next week or so. “With John’s help, I’m saving a lot in interest and cutting down the number of years.”
He estimates that it will take him five or six years to cover his closing costs, but that’s fine, he said, because he has no intention of selling.
Homeowners who have been dragging their feet about refinancing still have time to act. Ms. Lantz, of Zillow, predicts that rates will likely stay below 4 percent for the remainder of the year. And according to the most recent consumer credit access survey by the 
One way or the other, borrowers should be prepared for a rigorous review process. Given the tighter mortgage regulations since the recession and lenders’ fairly conservative underwriting standards, “everything’s much more difficult” than it once was, Mr. Prom said. “The amount of data you need to get people closed is crazy in terms of what’s required.”
Mr. Shnayder, of Citizens Bank, also said that the documentation requirements can go “overboard.” But borrowers can avoid running into problems by seeking out an experienced mortgage professional who will foresee potential pitfalls and work around them, he said.
Mr. Tillu said his lender did require extensive documentation, though he was able to supply it easily in digital format. As for the inconvenience, he regards it as similar to putting up with security checks at the airport. If tighter rules mean a more secure and stable financial system, he said, he’s not going to complain.