
James Bullard, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, doesn’t know when the American economy will fall into another recession. But he says it’s increasingly likely that it will happen before the Fed has a chance to return its benchmark interest rate to a historically normal level.
Indeed, Mr. Bullard has fretted for years that the United States and other major economies may be stuck with low interest rates for some time to come. In an interview last week, Mr. Bullard said he wants to raise rates. He really does. It just seems as if the necessary conditions keep slipping away.
After pushing to raise rates at the beginning of the year, he voted against a rate increase in April and he said he’s still thinking about June. “If you talk to people in Tokyo, they say, ‘Well, we’ve been through this and tried all these things and you guys are just following us,’ ” he said in the interview. “I hope that’s not exactly true.”
Mr. Bullard also talked about his distaste for the Fed’s “dot plot” and why he’s not afraid of a little Brexit.
And I asked Mr. Bullard, the most talkative of the Fed’s current crop of officials, whether he talks too much. Read on for his answer. The text of our conversation is lightly edited for clarity.
And one thing you can say about them is, “Gee, they seem to be very highly correlated with oil prices and so they’re not as meaningful as you think they are.” And certainly for about a year, 18 months, after oil prices started to decline — so this is summer of 2014 — all the way through the end of last year, I kept saying, “Yes, but they’re highly correlated with oil prices.” I was expecting prices to decorrelate. And it still hasn’t happened. We’re coming up on two years. I’m starting to feel like you just have to take the signal at face value.
Now, when we lifted off, we did the same thing. And if you look at past behavior of the Fed, once we start moving we keep moving in the same direction. That’s the way the Fed works. So it looked like a quasi-commitment to raise rates four times in 2016. And we put language around it saying, “This is all data dependent.” But from the market’s point of view they were saying: “In the past, whenever you started moving, you kept moving. So you’re giving us guidance about what you’re going to do and you’re going to stick with it.”
It was very hard for us to break that off in the January-February time frame, to convince markets that we really are data dependent. So this whole experience convinced me that there is more commitment embedded in the dot plot than we would really like, and certainly more than what has been the norm for the Fed in other eras when we’ve had successful policy-making. Greenspan never said anything about what the committee might do in the future. The norm in central banking, away from the zero bound, is to say, “We have set the policy rate exactly where we think it should be for today, given everything that’s going on in the economy, and in the future we’ll look at the data.” You didn’t do this kind of dot-plot thing.
I’ve wondered if we should get back to something that’s more akin to that. We don’t want to give unintentional commitments. We’re doing it with good intentions. We’re trying to be transparent. We’re saying this depends on the economy. But I’m wondering if it’s really working all that well.
I’ve always been worried that the long run here is the Japanese outcome. I still hold out hope that that’s not the case, but I am worried about it, and it’s been going on for a very long time. If you talk to people in Tokyo, they say, “Well, we’ve been through this and tried all these things, and you guys are just following us.” I hope that’s not exactly true. I do think we’ve been able to do better than the B.O.J. did in implementing some forms of unconventional monetary policy. I thought QE2 was particularly effective. We’ve been able to keep expectations of inflation relatively high. I still hold out some hope.