
The music industry sent a wish list to Washington, but the response was not quite what it had expected.
Two years ago, Ascap and BMI, the industry’s two giant licensing clearinghouses, petitioned the Justice Department for changes to the regulatory agreements that have governed them since 1941. Those documents have not been changed in at least 15 years and, the agencies said, were in desperate need of updating to preserve the value of music in the digital age. The request came after both groups went through bruising litigation with Pandora Media over royalty rates.
But this week the government told the agencies it planned to deny their request, and added a twist that songwriters and industry executives say could further damage the economics of music and perhaps unsettle the business in fundamental ways.
In a meeting in Washington on Wednesday, Justice Department lawyers told representatives of Ascap and BMI that the two groups, called performing rights organizations, must adopt a policy known as “100 percent licensing,” which means that any party that controls a part of a composition can issue a license for the use of the whole thing. This went against decades of industry practice.
Although the Justice Department’s recommendation carries great weight, any alterations to the consent decrees is subject to approval by two federal judges overseeing the cases, and the performing rights organizations could object to the changes in court.
Music publishers said that instituting 100 percent licensing would further depress royalty rates by letting outlets like radio stations and digital music services shop for whatever party would accept the lowest fee. It would also cause administrative pandemonium, at least in the short term, they said, and cast doubt on the futures of Ascap and BMI, two of the music world’s most stable institutions, together processing more than $2 billion a year in licensing fees.
“Their decision is like Brexit,” said Martin Bandier, the chief executive of Sony/ATV, the largest publisher. “No one understands it.”
The Justice Department’s meeting with Ascap and BMI was confirmed by those organizations, which issued a brief joint statement on Thursday saying that they were “evaluating the information presented.” The regulators are expected to meet with publishers and digital music services next week and issue a public decision by the end of July, according to several people briefed on the talks who were not authorized to speak about them. A Justice Department spokesman declined to comment.
The decision, if upheld by the courts, could have consequences for songwriters. Those who work alone and control their intellectual property would gain an advantage. Major pop hits now tend to involve many songwriters, but the ranks of credited writers could be thinned to limit the number of people who could potentially license the work, publishing executives said.
It could also mean that musicians would be forced to change their writing habits based on the professional affiliations of their collaborators, said Michelle Lewis, a songwriter whose work has been recorded by pop stars like Cher and Jessica Simpson, and who is a founder of the advocacy group Songwriters of North America.
“You write with who you have chemistry with; their choice of P.R.O. should not figure into it,” Ms. Lewis said. “But if we have to deal with this administrative nightmare we are not going to collaborate. I don’t think the D.O.J. really understood this.”
When the Justice Department indicated last year that it was considering 100 percent licensing, it caused an uproar in the industry. In January, Maria A. Pallante, the register of copyrights and the director of the United States Copyright Office, wrote a 30-page memo saying that the practice “would seemingly vitiate important principles of copyright law.”
Yet the Justice Department’s position on 100 percent licensing has been endorsed by technology companies, which have long argued that the music industry charges onerous fees for use of their material. In a federal rate-setting trial two years ago involving Ascap and Pandora, a judge also warned that Ascap and music publishers had shown a “troubling coordination” in how they operate, giving fuel to technology companies’ complaints about the music industry.
“Congress is clear in the Copyright Act that each individual co-writer is authorized to license the whole,” said Gregory Barnes, the general counsel of the Digital Media Association, a trade group that includes tech giants like Pandora, Amazon and Google. “Congress created that rule to promote efficiency.”
In the past, major music publishers like Universal and Sony/ATV have said they will withdraw their works entirely from Ascap and BMI if the consent decrees are not changed to their satisfaction, but it was not clear on Thursday whether they would follow through. Mr. Bandier said that Sony/ATV was still coming to grips with the situation.
Elizabeth Matthews, the chief executive of Ascap, said her organization was “disappointed and frustrated,” and considering “legal and legislative remedies.”
“An approach that creates confusion, chaos and instability in the marketplace,” Ms. Matthews said, “is detrimental to all creators, publishers and music users.”