
LOS ANGELES — If the United States escapes a disaster Nov. 8, it will have done so narrowly. Donald Trump, a dictator-in-waiting with a brat’s temper and a prig’s scowl, has won the support of 
Trump slashed and burned his way through 
At times, watching was like rubbernecking a hideous accident. Trump’s was a good performance, performance being the operative word. It was also shot through with viciousness and ignorance. Trump invokes but does not understand the Constitution; he understands a business and a TV show where he can fire anybody, anytime. He knows no other modus operandi, which is why debate is really a misnomer for anything in which he is involved.
“You’re jailed!” Maybe that will be Trump’s next TV act. Call it “The Warden.” He has demonstrated beyond doubt that the human inclination to bow to an all-powerful master endures.
This has been one long, strange trip for the Republican nominee. I don’t think that he can fool all Americans all of the time. Still he’s come a very long way with a single idea: I, and I alone, can channel your anger into an American renaissance. Policies have never really come into the Trump phenomenon. Saviors don’t have policies. They have energy.
It now behooves America, whatever the outcome next month, to address that anger mixed with fear. It is widespread. Trump understood this and went to work. He grasped that many people in a polarized America, whipped up by Fox News and ushered into a post-fact world by the antics of the Republican Party, were ready for a straight-talking outsider prepared to offer scapegoats for every frustration. Trump’s has been a single-note campaign; that note is rage. It has been particularly effective against the ultimate insider, Clinton.
I was talking the other day with a Silicon Valley venture capitalist who said to me with a kind of deadpan resignation: “You know we are designing a world that is not fit for people.” Perhaps that admission comes closest to capturing the disquiet and dread on which Trump has thrived, along with other 
There is something rotten in the state of the West. It is not one single thing; it is a feeling of downward drift in societies unjustly skewed.
Trump likes to bloviate about China and unfair trade deals, but you can take China out of the equation and the American jobs lost to cheap labor in Asia are not coming back. Robots are doing those jobs, artificial intelligence is 
People know this. They feel the tectonic plates shifting, not only of America’s place in the world after two wars without victory, but also of production, employment, their livelihoods. Precariousness is the new normal. Everything is visible, including the immense wealth of the rich. Tossed here and there by dimly understood global forces people revert to nativism, nationalism and ethnocentrism — in a word, to Trumpism.
Imagine the day when Uber operates with driverless cars; 
A political counter-disruption is now in full swing from the losers to turbo-capitalism. Its message: We will no longer listen to self-serving elites. Witness Brexit, a revolt fed by lies that delivered disaster.
The creative economy is a catchy phrase but in many cases, for those without the education or connections to benefit, what is created is misery. Technology is wonderful when it’s useful but less so when it puts an end to your usefulness. Its whirlwind has left humanity with their heads bowed gazing at desolate little screens.
The stooped yearn then to look up and perceive a man who promises deliverance. Trump has been that man. Who cares if he questions Clinton’s stamina one day and says, “She doesn’t quit, and she doesn’t give up,” the next?
He never made any damn sense anyway.
His rise is a warning sign. If the warning is not heeded Trump may fail next month but another Trump will arise.