
Hillary Clinton and Donald J. Trump are virtually tied, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News 
Colin L. Powell’s 
Senior intelligence officials say that Russian hackers can’t rig the U.S. presidential election, but that they may be able to disrupt it, especially by casting doubt on the legitimacy of the results.
Voting machines aren’t supposed to be connected to the internet, and most states keep paper backups of ballots. 
A widening inquiry into a recruit’s 
Many in the ranks call harsh treatment a rite of passage. “Basic training is hell on earth, as it should be,” one veteran said.
Prime Minister Theresa May appears to be seeking more time for her government to work out the details of Britain’s exit from the European Union.
A Hollywood movie about Edward J. Snowden, the former intelligence contractor who leaked secrets about National Security Agency surveillance in 2013, has led human rights groups to renew their push for President Obama 
The chances of that happening, though, remain slim.
Wildlife photographers and conservationists are using one of social media’s guilty pleasures to promote environmental awareness. But our critic says the experience can be jarring.
“I came to Instagram to get a quick baby-animal fix and left with a horrifying message,” 
Dr. Carla D. Hayden is the first African-American and first woman to be sworn in as the 
As the school year gets started, we’re exploring how diversity and race are being experienced and discussed by young people of various ages. 
If you’re craving cherries, go with this take on the classic French dessert 
In the 1950s, Brownie Wise ascended to America’s executive class at a time when few women were doing so.
Her rise was propelled by her skills as a saleswoman, and most notably she perfected a particular method of direct sales: the Tupperware party. She became the first woman to appear on Business Week’s cover.
Ms. Wise died 24 years ago this month in Florida at age 79.
It was Ms. Wise’s thriving business selling the plastic containers that led the company to hire her as its 
Knowing how to recognize an opportunity helped Ms. Wise on that path, too.
A visit from a bumbling salesman peddling home products changed her life. “I could do better than that,” Ms. Wise, a single mother, 
Female executives were rare then. But Tupperware’s founder, Earl Tupper, enthralled by Ms. Wise’s moneymaking abilities, made her the company’s public face.
Of course, we should not overlook that opportunities for women in business were so relatively scarce at the time that one of the first to rise high had to do it through Tupperware.
Ms. Wise’s stay at the top was short-lived. As her profile grew, she and Mr. Tupper’s differing personalities led them to clash often, and she was fired in 1958. For years, the company’s history ignored her role.
She moved on, but new successes didn’t follow.
After her death, a local reporter 