
Hillary Clinton and Donald J. Trump will meet tonight in Las Vegas for the third and final 
Will Mrs. Clinton reach out to Republicans who do not support Mr. Trump? Will he continue to attack his party’s leaders? Those are some of the things 
A former F.B.I. official has admitted that he discussed the possibility of swapping favors with a State Department counterpart involving the classification of a disputed email, 
The first phases of the military operation to push Islamic State militants out of Mosul, Iraq’s second-largest city, could last weeks or even months. Here’s a look at 
Ecuador said it had placed a “
The Affordable Care Act’s health insurance marketplace has been criticized for giving little benefit beyond coverage for catastrophic problems. But the 
Open enrollment begins Nov. 1 and runs through Jan. 31. 
The ExoMars 2016 spacecraft, a joint effort by the European and Russian space agencies, 
A primary goal of the mission is to search for methane and other gases, which could offer hints of life on the planet.
A financial meltdown or a return to good economic times are among the possibilities.
“I’m done with the tablets,” he said.
Scientists say that the skeletal remains of an Aboriginal man in Australia indicate that he may have been the 
After the researchers finished gathering data, the remains were given a traditional burial.
The 
The Los Angeles Dodgers took a 2-1 lead over the Chicago Cubs in the 
Advances in wet suit designs have helped bring the sport to other cold areas, including Alaska, Iceland and Sweden.
The middle of the week calls for creative thinking, so try this 
The stock market has hit near-record heights this year, despite myriad reasons for anxiety: the U.S. presidential elections, “Brexit,” China’s economic slowdown.
But some analysts 
The Dow Jones industrial average fell more than 500 points in New York, a 22.6 percent decline that remains the largest in the index’s history — even outstripping the 1929 plunge that heralded the Great Depression. Investors in U.S. stocks lost 
Computerized trading systems were new, enabling a sell-off at a scale not seen before. More than 600 million shares were traded in New York. The American Stock Exchange’s disk drives 
High-speed trading and communications amplified the crash around the world. Japan took record losses. Hong Kong stopped trading for the rest of the week. Europe’s markets were in free fall. “We’ve never had anything like this,” a European trader said.
But a crisis on the scale of the Great Depression did not materialize. The drop, in the end, was far more modest than that of 2008. And the markets fully recovered within two years.