
The presidential race has settled back into a tight contest in its final days, with Hillary Clinton holding a 3-point edge over Donald J. Trump, according to the latest 
The poll began hours after the F.B.I. announced last Friday that it would investigate emails belonging to a top aide to Mrs. Clinton.
President Obama will be in Florida today to rally support for Hillary Clinton. 
People on both sides of the political spectrum have expressed fears that voting will be disrupted or hacked on Tuesday. We look at 
As the monthslong standoff over the project near the Standing Rock Sioux Reservation in North Dakota shows no signs of abating, 
“There is a way for us to accommodate sacred lands of Native Americans,” he said. “I think that right now the Army Corps is examining whether there are ways to reroute this pipeline.”
The British government must consult Parliament before proceeding with formal negotiations for the country’s withdrawal from the European Union, 
Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, the self-declared caliph of the Islamic State, 
“We may never actually know what motivated this act,” a police spokesman said of the 
The suspect, Scott M. Greene, surrendered. Just hours before the officers were killed, a court had ordered him to move out of his mother’s house, after she accused him of abuse.
You read that correctly. 
Our 
The episode has complicated the company’s effort to regain public trust after its diesel emissions scandal.
A majority of Americans in a recent survey said that overweight people should be able to 
Sleeping poorly can also cause weight problems: 
Just before the rapper Phife Dawg died in March, the influential hip-hop group recorded its 
The rap legend’s lifelong friend, Q-Tip, said finishing the project was tough. “It’s so hard for me to sit in there and hear his voice,” he said. “Sometimes I just have to, like, take a break and walk away. It gets heavy.”
transcript
none
If the ballot initiatives to legalize recreational cannabis 
Residents of Western states are more likely to use marijuana, according to the 
But why?
One reason, some historians say, is that social permissiveness has governed the region since the Gold Rush days.
“Leadville, Colo., and San Francisco were disproportionately male, young and single. Those were places that had a lot of commercialized vice,” David Courtwright, a history professor, said.
Most Western states were admitted to the Union in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Their constitutions often make it easier than ones in older states to organize ballot initiatives — which is how most states have legalized marijuana so far.
Mr. Courtwright called the region an “interesting combination of blue state social liberalism and red state libertarianism.”
Politics aside, the money to be made in marijuana is significant. The legal market is 
Apparently they’re drawn by the spirit that fueled the Gold Rush: turning natural resources into fortunes.