
The state’s Atlantic coast is feeling the force of the Category 3 storm, and the National Weather Service warns of “extremely dangerous and life-threatening” winds. “Evacuate, evacuate, evacuate,” the governor urged 1.5 million residents yesterday. Check back for 
Days after the hurricane battered Haiti, a fuller picture of the damage has emerged: 
Hillary Clinton and Donald J. Trump are preparing for Sunday’s presidential debate in St. Louis. Their second showdown begins at 9 p.m. Eastern. A 
If you want to know where Mrs. Clinton is eager to increase turnout, 
The 
As American and Iraqi forces prepare to 
A successful military operation alone “does nothing to prevent extremists from resurfacing again,” a former State Department official warns.
Is there such a thing as a “
Activists against corporate agriculture 
Separately, 
Our review of “
Greeted with ovations at Sundance, this depiction of Nat Turner’s slave revolt presented itself as a document of America’s polarized present. But then details emerged of sexual assault allegations against its star and director, Nate Parker, dating to his college years.
We also review “
“How would I have found the strength to have made it through that week without you?” The Boston writer 
If you’re looking to treat yourself to a trip before the year ends, check out our 
Start the weekend with 
The 2015 N.C.A.A. football season was the highest-scoring in history, with the average team compiling 
But these numbers are dwarfed by the greatest college football scoring performance of all time, which took place 100 years ago today: Georgia Tech’s thrashing of Cumberland College, 222-0.
Georgia Tech was coached by John Heisman, whose name now adorns the trophy given each year to college football’s best player. He also coached baseball, a sport in which Cumberland had embarrassed him with a shutout. In 1916, 
Or maybe he was trying to make a broader point about the value of scoring. 
Whatever his motivation, the 
Georgia Tech rushed for 978 yards. Cumberland’s total: minus-42. Cumberland committed 15 turnovers, Georgia Tech none.
There’s one more notable number. Two years ago, an alumnus 