
NICE, France — For families wealthy enough to afford it, the traditional vacation home with shuttered windows opening onto a view of the Atlantic Ocean or the Mediterranean Sea has long been an aspirational mainstay of French life: a place to cook, swim and entertain friends.
But data released in May by Notaires de France, an association for French notaries, showed that average prices of homes had dropped in the course of 2015 in more than three-quarters of the coastal towns and cities that were analyzed. Although most of the price drops were less than 10 percent, some towns with a significant proportion of second homes posted bigger decreases, including, on the Côte d’Azur, Saint-Raphaël, with a drop of 12.8 percent, and Hyères, with a drop of 11.1 percent.
In Saint-Malo, an attractive walled town with a marina on the English Channel in Brittany, average home prices fell 11.4 percent in 2015. (Few locations posted large price increases, although the association found that houses in the Atlantic seaside resort of Les Sables-d’Olonne rose in price by an average of 5 percent last year.)
In comparison, the average price of existing homes in France in general — including houses and apartments in Paris and other urban centers— rose 1.3 percent in the 12 months ended May 31, according to the association’s latest projection. The group reported that in this wider market — dominated by primary residences — there was a “favorable alchemy that combines a drop in interest rates and an increase in volumes, which therefore implies greater fluidity and a foreseeable rise in real estate prices.”
That is not the case for vacation homes.
“But second-home sales are a less urgent market,” said Thierry Thomas, a notary who helped draft the report. “What we see is that vendors often do not need to sell and are not in a rush to do so, and so only drop their sales price slowly. But when prices of a critical mass of vacation homes start to drop in a given location, as happened in 2015 in Saint-Raphaël and Hyères, which are both classic French seaside resort towns, they can drop quite quickly, as vendors actively seek out buyers.”
For the time being, cuts in asking prices of seaside vacation homes may mean that now is a good time to buy.
Fallout in currency markets from the British vote last month to leave the European Union isn’t helping sales either.
“It’s too early to tell what the long-term impact of the ‘Brexit’ vote will be, but it’s a given that some overseas buyers’ budgets will have been affected by the volatile currency situation,” said Jelena Cvjetkovic, an associate director at Savills International Residential, an international real estate agency based in London.
In Saint-Cast-le-Guildo, a resort town almost 20 miles west of Saint-Malo, a detached home built in 1910 within walking distance of a popular sandy beach and with sea views has an asking price of 1,760,000 euros, or $1,960,000, reduced from €2.1 million in May (through the agency Emile Garcin).
The stone-built, partly half-timbered property has 15 bedrooms and a total of 665 square meters, or about 7,160 square feet, of living space. There is also a housekeepers’ cottage on the 1.8 hectares, or nearly 4.5 acres, of grounds. This home — atypically big for this stretch of coast — would probably suit a buyer with the time and budget to make upgrades and particularly to install new bathrooms: At present, a line of six wash basins in a second-floor corridor of the main residence is intended for the use of a half-dozen bedrooms.
Meanwhile, near Saint-Tropez on the French Mediterranean coast, in a town with about 5,600 permanent residents, a four-bedroom, four-bathroom villa on a 1,475-square-meter plot, and with 240 square meters of living space, is available for €4.9 million. The asking price of this property was also lowered in May, from €5,775,000, according to Leggett Immobilier, the agency handling the sale. The house has an open-plan living-dining area that opens onto a wooden deck, next to an outdoor swimming pool, and there is an off-road parking lot for four cars.
Saint-Tropez was a quiet fishing village before it became popular with the international jet set in the early 1960s. It is crowded with vacationers in the summer, but like the rather less glamorous, family-friendly resorts on the coastline of Brittany and other seaside communities in France, it can feel very quiet in the winter, when many businesses simply shut down. As an example, La Vague d’Or, a restaurant in Saint-Tropez with three Michelin stars, opened for the season in April and will close in early October.
Few industry observers doubt that the main reason for the generalized drop in value of seaside homes is a stagnant French economy and a lack of confidence that it will pick up soon. 
“In general, we are seeing figures for homes in vacation resorts along the coast exchanging hands for prices 20 percent lower than their peak in 2008, just before prices started to plummet,” said Sébastien de Lafond, the president of MeilleursAgents.com, a French property portal. 
“Meanwhile prices for homes intended as primary residences in many cities in France, including Paris, are already above their 2008 values, and have essentially recovered after the crash.” 
But the most difficult proposition of all from a vendor’s perspective, says Mr. de Lafond, are houses in the French countryside, far from both urban centers and also the shore. Some of these properties, in Normandy, for instance, have been popular among city-dwellers as rural retreats. “Here, we’ve seen price drops of up to 50 percent since 2008,” said Mr. de Lafond. “We’re talking about some homes that are, at present, basically unsellable.”
But for Mr. de Lafond there is an unanswered generational question: Do young people today even want to own a second home?
Advertisements in magazines and on the Paris Métro promote the charms of far-off destinations in Southeast Asia, South America and elsewhere. The French, in short, are becoming more adventurous. What will this mean for the future of the vacation home by the shore?
“In the long term,” Mr. de Lafond said, “no one knows what will happen.”