
AMSTERDAM — If each European nation can be seen as an instrument that has its own distinctive tonal qualities, then the European Union, it might be said, is a symphony of nations.
That, at least, is the thinking behind an ambitious plan for the 
The program, called RCO Meets Europe, will begin in each country with an opening piece played in collaboration with the youth orchestra of each nation.
“It’s a celebration of polyphony in Europe,” said Jan Raes, managing director of the Royal Concertgebouw Orchestra, referring to the combination of several independent sounds or voices performed simultaneously in a single musical composition.
It is an apt metaphor, he said, for creating a harmonious whole by bringing together the diverse and divergent cultures of Europe at a time when the union is in danger of being torn apart by the so-called Brexit and other political divisions.
“Polyphony was really developed in Europe in the middle ages, and it’s a very European concept to sing and play together very complex works,” Mr. Raes said. “That requires a lot of empathy, because it’s impossible to be polyphonic in a way, without really listening. It’s a metaphor of how to play and live together when you have all these different cultures.”
The series of concerts, led by the Royal Concertgebouw Orchestra’s incoming chief conductor, Daniele Gatti, begins on Aug. 27 with a concert at the National Concert Hall in Dublin and will end in December 2018 with a concert in Sweden.
Along the way, the orchestra will make stops at some of the world’s top classical venues, such as the 
As the orchestra arrives in each country, players will meet with the local youth orchestra, which will have a rehearsal and master class with Mr. Gatti and then perform the musical overture of the concert side by side with the Royal Concertgebouw Orchestra’s professional musicians.
“Of course we always want to have the best quality possible, but what’s more important is the message: young people who are still students are in a position to play with the Royal Concertgebouw Orchestra,” Mr. Gatti said in a telephone interview.
For the Aug. 27 kickoff event in Dublin, 40 musicians under the age of 18 from the National Youth Orchestra of Ireland will join the RCO to perform the overture to Carl Maria von Weber’s “Oberon,” to be followed by Robert Schumann’s cello concerto and Anton Bruckner’s beloved 4th Symphony.
Following their performance, members of the youth orchestra will join the audience to watch the rest of the concert.
“To have Daniele Gatti here as he just literally takes up his post as the new musical director is already exciting, and the prospect of working with our national youth orchestra was even more exciting,” said Simon Taylor, the chief operating officer of the Dublin National Concert Hall, in a telephone interview. “If I put myself in the place of a 17-year- old violinist whose told that they’re going to play with the Concertgebouw orchestra and then watch them for the rest of the concert, well ... how inspiring would that be?”
In the Slovenian capital, Ljubljana, on Sept. 1, the orchestra will perform Debussy’s “Prélude à l’après-midi d’un faune” with young musicians from the Ljubljana International Orchestra, followed by the orchestral work “Métaboles” by Henri Dutilleux and two playful early 20th-century ballets, Stravinsky’s “Petrushka,” and Debussy’s “Jeux.”
The orchestra will perform twice in Austria, once at the Grosses Festspielhaus in Salzburg on Aug. 30 and next at the open-air Wolkenturm in Grafenegg on Sept. 2.
For his own Opening Night at his new home at the Concertgebouw in Amsterdam, Mr. Gatti will likewise begin the concert with Beethoven’s overture to “Egmont,” with the orchestra accompanied by with 85 musicians age 20 and under from the Dutch youth orchestra JeugdOrkest Nederland. The program also includes works by Schubert, Respighi and Verdi.
Planning for the extensive program began more than two and a half years ago, when some of the European Union’s current conflicts were only beginning to stir. “When we organized this, these issues were not that urgent,” said Mr. Raes. “But now it’s much more urgent.”
“I feel more than ever that people from the arts and artists have to have a stronger voice in this debate,” he added. “Europe is more than the euro and commissions and parliament and the E.C.B. We have to put culture and the arts and education much higher on the agenda. Maybe the financial, economical and social challenges are maybe a cultural crisis. Creative people have to play their role.”
The plan was also developed before the Dutch national orchestra had selected its seventh chief conductor, Mr. Gatti, who will lead the RCO Meets Europe in Ireland, Austria and Slovenia before he officially takes the mantle at the Concertgebouw in Amsterdam on Sept. 9. He will participate in about 90 percent of the international concerts.
Mr. Gatti said that he was very pleased with the plan, particularly because he enjoys working with young musicians. “Whenever I have the opportunity, it’s always a pleasure for me,” he said.
Ever since it was founded in 1888, the Royal Concertgebouw Orchestra has been made up of an international group of players, said Mr. Raes. Today its 120 musicians represent 25 national backgrounds. “We are a mirror of this rich network, and it’s sort of magic when you work with all these individuals to play together on a higher level,” said Mr. Raes. “It’s something to be proud of.”
The end of the RCO Meets Europe program in late 2018 program will coincide with the 100th anniversary of the end of World War I, timing that was also chosen to be symbolic.
“Europe is in a very searching period, finding new directions and seeking new orientations, and there are many challenges,” Mr. Raes said. “The orchestra is a bridge-builder, and that’s the reason we want to make a statement.”