
GLASGOW — In May 2014, a small fire that started in the basement of the Charles Rennie Mackintosh building at the Glasgow School of Art here ripped through its wooden innards, working its way from the basement to the upper stories and destroying much of the west wing of a building long considered the jewel in Glasgow’s architectural crown.
Now, after two years of planning, preservation and debris removal, restoration on the Mackintosh is set to begin.
“It’s one of those unique moments where you have to rethink how you actually use a building,” said the art school’s director, Tom Inns. The devastating fire, he said, “was actually a significant catalyst in how we think about the space.”
Mackintosh, a Glaswegian architect, completed the Art Nouveau building in 1909. He was highly regarded in both Scotland and the German-speaking world, where his fondness for florid lines and Japanese-inspired designs synced well with tastes at the time. But his ability to readily secure work petered out in the years after the building’s completion. It wasn’t until after his death in 1928 that a renewed appreciation for his work, especially the Glasgow School of Art, flourished again. Still in regular use by students and administrators until the fire, the building attracted around 25,000 visitors each year.
It was best known for its library — a multitiered gem, with distinctive fin-de-siècle chandelier lighting; carefully wrought colored balustrades; elongated windows; and ornamental carvings on tables and between levels. Often praised as a modernist architectural masterwork, the building actually included a hodgepodge of reference points: hanging light fixtures that evoke the factory floors that once dominated industrial Glasgow, and facades that at once refer to Scottish baronial castles and Italian Renaissance styles.
The fire began when an overhead projector ignited solvent in a student’s artwork. It started below the library, destroyed much of the interior’s western half, though crews managed to contain it before it moved east. The library, though, was almost entirely destroyed, its distinctive design features reduced to ash. Only its floor stayed largely preserved, salvaged by debris that landed on top of it.
On the day of the fire, said Robyne Calvert, a research fellow who now works in the school’s archives, Glaswegians stood on the streets outside the building in tears, lamenting the loss of a building “that has been embedded in the history and culture of the city for 100 years.”
After holding expert forums and an open hunt for architects, the school announced that it would restore the building to something close to its original appearance.
Many celebrated the decision, but some saw it as a missed chance to innovate. “Tom Inns, the school’s director, has announced that the library will be rebuilt to the original design but will incorporate features that will bring it up-to-date,” the architect Alan Dunlop wrote 
“We did think of the other options,” Mr. Inns said in an interview, “but very quickly discounted them.”
“A big portion of the building is not damaged by the fire,” he added. “It seemed entirely inappropriate to put something contemporary in place to replace that.” (A forward-looking and light-filled campus building designed by the American architect 
Page\Park Architects, appointed in spring 2015 to oversee the restoration, pored through archival photographs and documents, working with school staff members. “There is a combination of trying to be true to the original design intent that Mackintosh had,” said Sarah MacKinnon, a project manager, “and also of making the building functional and making it work.”
The building will look much as it did in 1910, about a year after its completion, she said. But some modern amenities, like underfloor heating in the library, are also planned, with a new fire safety system that includes a misting infrastructure.
Partly because of the heavy smoking habits of students and faculty, the library’s tulip wood interior has darkened with grit over time. In restoring the building to its 1910 colors, Ms. MacKinnon, said, it might look surprisingly bright to recent visitors.
Perhaps the most visible change will be the removal of partitions built through the years in the student studio spaces. Those will be removed to create an open-plan work space that more closely reflects the building’s original setup.
The school’s insurance application, settled late last year, was largely successful, but the campus has begun a fund-raising appeal with a goal of 32 million pounds (about $41.4 million) to help restore the building and acquire the nearby Stow College site. So far, £17 million, about $22 million, has been secured through private and public aid.
The “Brexit” vote, in which Britain decided to leave the European Union, should have “no impact” on public funding, a university spokeswoman said. Students are expected to begin moving back into the building in the 2018-19 academic year.
“There had become a kind of preciousness about some of those spaces, the library in particular,” said Ms. Calvert, who, as a lecturer at the Glasgow School of Art, would occasionally hold classes in the library. With the restoration, she said, more art makers will begin to see the building as not just a museumlike space but as one that they can truly use.
Georgina Clapham, who graduated this spring with a fine art degree, wrote in an email, “I know that the return to the Mackintosh Building will be very emotional for all students and alumni that have passed though its doors.” She added, “It will be nice for all areas of art and design to be reunited in one place.”