
The N.B.A. and its players’ union reached 
Briefly, here’s some stuff about the tentative deal that may interest you.
■ There won’t be a lockout next season. Hurrah!
■ The league is going to reduce the number of 
■ Salaries will climb significantly.
Michael McCann at Sports Illustrated put together 
All right, all right, you can wake up now. Look! Russell Westbrook doing something insane!
Let’s get into some games.
For a website that belongs to something called the Cheezburger Network, 
The joke refers to the Golden State Warriors’ epic collapse against the Cleveland Cavaliers in last season’s N.B.A. finals. But there’s a reason it 
Despite those two glorious records, high honors for the team and the superstar Stephen Curry, the Warriors’ season still ended with a heaping helping of shame — in the form of a distinction nobody wanted.
A slide that embarrassing can’t be confined to the world of sports. The joke 
(If you like this joke, here are 
Warriors fans have reason to think the meme won’t live much longer. After adding Kevin Durant, Golden State may be even better this season than last. The Dubs are scoring more per game than they did last season. They have the league’s best record, and the kind of chip on their shoulders that you only get when … you blow a 3-1 lead in the N.B.A. finals.
Meanwhile, the Cavs, whom they will meet for the first time this season on Christmas, look solid, if not spectacular. Cleveland has the best record in the East, but not by a particularly wide margin. If you watch them casually, they don’t bear the hallmarks of a superteam. They muddle through games. They drop behind teams they have no business losing to, and they even lose.
But if you watch closely, you realize that the Cavaliers also could be even better than last season. Kevin Love is averaging six more points, shooting better and working hard on defense and on the boards. Kyrie Irving, still only 24, has taken another leap, and is on the short list of the league’s best point guards. As for LeBron James, well, 
More to the point, the Cavaliers seem as if they simply don’t worry about the regular season. James has been to the N.B.A. finals 
You can rest assured that the Cavs’ big three won’t be taking Christmas off except for an injury. If the Warriors do have an advantage, it is their depth, and Cleveland’s stars will have to show up for their team to compete.
To recap: It’s the last two N.B.A. champions. They’re meeting for the first time this season. It’s most likely a preview of the finals and a game that either team has a good chance to win. On Christmas.
Thank you, Santa. This is exactly what we wanted.
Were the aforementioned game not taking place, you could believe that the Rockets would be in the top slot. They’ve won 10 games in a row after snatching a victory away from the Minnesota Timberwolves in overtime on Saturday, shattering hearts that were already frozen over by the weather. The Rockets may be legitimately good, and not just an extension of James Harden’s beard. They’ll get a real test in San Antonio on Tuesday.
Speaking of the Spurs, they’ve got a tough schedule this week. After that visit from the Rockets, they jet off to Los Angeles to take on the Clippers, who have won four of their last five after losing five of their previous seven.
In case you haven’t realized it, there are a lot of hot teams in the West. Utah is 8-2 in its last 10 games and has won four straight. It should be interesting to see how the Jazz match up with the Raptors, the East’s consistent second bananas, who also are 8-2 in their last 10 games.
I was very saddened to hear of 
He was colorful and a good interviewer. With his cheerful attitude, enthusiasm for basketball and ability to laugh at himself, he embodied what I love about the N.B.A.
Here are appreciations from some of those who worked with him.
That’s all for now. Enjoy the holidays and see you next week.