
France’s president, François Hollande, is holding emergency security meetings today before heading to Nice, where 
The police shot and killed the driver, identified as a 31-year-old man who was born in Tunisia and lived in the Nice area. He left a tableau of death and dying 
After delaying the announcement because of the attack, 
Our new poll finds that voters in both parties are 
President Obama defended the 
Black and white worshipers joined hands in prayer at the 
One bill headed to President Obama’s desk is a measure requiring the labeling of foods made with 
Secretary of State John Kerry has met with President Vladimir V. Putin in Moscow to discuss a military cooperation agreement that would 
Syria’s leader, Bashar al-Assad, tells NBC News that 
The remake of “
Woody Allen’s comic romance “
In “
Demand is mounting for 
In New York, a 
Researchers built the first microscope that can provide 
And we have an artist’s rendering of 
Have a look at some linguistic curiosities in Malta, where about a third of the words are 
In other dispatches from around the globe, 
This simple stew of 
It’s summer, and you want some 
The HBO crime drama “The Night Of” 
The limited series is based on the BBC’s “Criminal Justice” (2008). That was set in London, where prospective cabdrivers face a battery of tests like no other.
The “
If you want to drive one of the city’s black cabs, you must memorize not just 25,000 streets, but the businesses or landmarks on them — like a flower stand or a laundromat.
Adding to the difficulty are curvy and squiggly streets, one-way roads, dead ends and traffic circles. But knowing all that isn’t enough. Drivers need to know the most efficient routes, too.
And then there’s the River Thames, which meanders so much that sometimes the shortest route can take a driver across it twice. Addresses can also be confusing, even if you’ve made it to the right street.
Applicants must take a written test, and a series of oral exams that are progressively harder.
Half or more of aspiring drivers drop out. But those who pass seem to end up with bigger brains.
Scientists have found that the posterior hippocampus, an area of the brain important for memory, 