
The latest developments:
• At least five officers are dead and seven others wounded. Two civilians were also injured.
• The police now say at least one sniper carried out the 
• One suspect, identified as Micah Johnson, 25, was killed after a standoff in a garage with a 
• Three other people are in police custody.
• President Obama described the attack as 
Check back 
“Please don’t tell me my boyfriend’s gone!” A woman’s 
Protests are continuing in St. Paul and the police 
Hillary Clinton heads into the weekend with the investigation into her emails closed and the likelihood that her Democratic primary opponent Senator Bernie Sanders 
Mr. Trump 
James B. Comey Jr. defended his decision to a House panel not to recommend charges against Hillary Clinton, but the panel’s leading Republican indicated that 
The race for leadership of the Conservative Party is down to 
Ms. May quietly supported staying in the European Union, while Ms. Leadsom was a vocal backer of the “Brexit” movement. We take a closer look at the 
Public universities are increasingly chasing out-of-state applicants in an effort to land students who 
A coming study indicates that this practice will lead to 
France, the host of the Euro 2016 soccer tournament, 
If you find yourself stuck indoors trying to beat the heat this weekend, consider decluttering your home. Or if you’re not that ambitious, 
Among our critics’ picks for this week are “
Some of our best stories and most-read items include: 
Try making 
It’s a 
U.F.C. officials are using the moment to not so subtly point out their sport’s ever-growing appeal as a rival to boxing.
A similar rivalry was at work 127 years ago. On this day in 1889, John L. Sullivan bested Jake Kilrain in 75 rounds of what is widely accepted as 
Nationwide press coverage captured the anticipation. As the Page One story in The New York Times 
As The Times put it then: “Never, during even a Presidential election, has there been so much excitement as there is here now, even when the brutal exhibition is over.”
Both fighters were arrested.