
Despite the view expressed by many commentators that last week’s Republican convention more closely resembled a grand-mal seizure than a smoothly coordinated rollout of a presidential nominee, Donald Trump emerged from Cleveland with exactly the kind of bounce such events are supposed to deliver. A 
Voters were apparently unperturbed by the forgettable cavalcade of 
By the more-is-more arms-race logic that typically attends presidential campaigns, it sounds like an absurd question. Presently, the Clinton operation consists of about 700 paid staff members; Trump’s is one-tenth that amount. Last month, Clinton’s campaign and its allies spent $26 million in the battleground states; Trump spent zero.
But the last Republican to win a presidential election, George W. Bush, had a paid staff of only about 220 in 2004. His former senior strategist, Matthew Dowd, describes Clinton’s operation as an “unwieldy tanker ship,” adding: “She’s also had an overreliance on paid political advertising. That money she recently spent in battleground states was totally wasted. She should be making more effective use of social media as a way of getting publicity. I know people say, ‘Oh, that’s unique to Trump.’ But I don’t think that’s fully the case. He’s shown how you can interject a new argument, put it out there and have it dominate discussion for the next five hours.”
The vast gulf between the candidates’ spending isn’t likely to shrink much, according to the Trump campaign’s national finance chairman, Steven Mnuchin. “I think this is a very different campaign, starting with the fact that Donald has a broader following than just the traditional Republican Party,” Mnuchin told me. “We don’t think it’s necessary to spend the kind of money on ads that the Clinton campaign is spending. And Donald doesn’t think we need 900 people on the campaign staff.”
But Dowd argues that the Trump campaign could use “some discipline and focus — to actually say, here are the eight states everyone in this building ought to be focused on.” Mnuchin scoffs at so narrow a projection. “Donald is saying he’s not taking New York and California off the table — those are not states Hillary should assume she will win,” he says. “There are states where he’s within five or 10 [percentage points], where traditionally there’s been a much wider gap. I’d say we think there are more like 15 battleground states. I think he’s doing extremely well in New Jersey, better than most Republicans have done. And I think he can win New Jersey. Obviously it would be an extraordinary thing if he won California or New York — if he could win either of those, the election would be over. Donald’s appeal is so widespread that there is tremendous crossover potential like never before.”
Of late, the Trump campaign has taken steps to demonstrate that it knows the difference between a 17-candidate primary brawl and a general-election contest. It has added pollsters, communications advisers, Teleprompters and, in Mike Pence, a reassuringly predictable running mate. But his operation remains not just small but devoid of traditional campaign hierarchy. Although Paul Manafort has cemented his role as the campaign’s primary strategist, Trump’s son-in-law Jared Kushner maintains an ad hoc portfolio — de facto adviser, speechwriter and gatekeeper — that is as broad as his political experience is limited. For more than a month now, the Trump operation has lacked an actual campaign manager, and a senior adviser says that there are no plans to replace the previous one, Corey Lewandowski. Trump receives advice from Manafort and Kushner, but also occasionally from media personalities, and at times seems to give equal weight to all of them.
When I spoke to Obama’s 2012 campaign manager, Jim Messina, on the phone just after he landed in Philadelphia to attend this week’s Democratic convention, he seemed confident that Trump’s operation was too small to succeed. “Look, if you don’t follow him on Twitter, you’re missing one of the best tech lessons of a generation,” he said. “He just won an entire primary based on social media. But organization matters. The average swing voter needs to be touched eight to 10 times, and swing voters aren’t on Twitter. Republicans have lost five of the last six presidential elections, and the one they won” — 2004 — “was because they built a machine and blew out the roof on turnout.”
Then again, Messina conceded, he could be wrong. Just a month ago, he 