
Businesses want certainty, but that’s in short supply in Britain at the moment.
It’s hardly surprising, then, that three-quarters of British chief executives surveyed by KPMG said they were 
Few chief executives have actually made concrete moves to relocate their businesses, but this won’t be the case forever.
“Policy makers should be really concerned about a leaching of British businesses abroad and should engage with businesses early to understand what assurances they can offer and closely monitor any shifts overseas,” said Simon Collins, the chairman of KPMG’s British operations.
Financiers have grown fearful about the political momentum behind a “hard Brexit,” which would leave Britain outside the European Union’s single market and without so-called passports, which allow banks to offer services to the entire bloc from one country.
Bankers who have held talks with government ministers have told 
Indeed, the pound fell to a five-week low on Friday over concerns that the speed of Britain’s withdrawal from the bloc might be faster than expected.
If Tim Berners-Lee, the man who invented the web, has issues shopping online, there’s little hope for the rest of us.
“Sometimes I will think that I bought something and I press the button, ‘Buy this,’ and I don’t realize it didn’t go through,” he said.
Which is why the web’s governing body, the World Wide Web Consortium, or W3C, is trying to make paying online easier.
The answer? A 
The new global standard will:
• Provide a uniform way for users to put their details and payment systems into any web browser.
• Be equally open to any existing card or app, so that Bitcoin or Chinese payment providers, already an 
The project will, however, be a challenge to PayPal and Amazon, both of which did not participate in this project.
One thing’s for sure: With so many organizations scrambling to smooth the payment process, you’ll have no excuse for buying too many of the same thing next time you reach the checkout.
With the first presidential debate just hours away, Hillary Clinton still faces doubts about the sincerity of her proposals to rein in Wall Street behavior.
An NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll in June found that 60 percent of registered voters expressed concern that her links to major financial companies could prevent her from holding the industry accountable.
Mrs. Clinton rejects the notion that her loyalties are in question.
Still, the roots of the relationship between the Clintons and Goldman Sachs date to the 1990s. And even as the bank became a whipping boy for politicians looking to lay blame for the crash, both Hillary and Bill Clinton drew the company in closer.
Over more than 20 years, Goldman has provided the Clintons with some of their most influential advisers, millions of dollars in campaign contributions and speaking fees, and financial support for the family foundation’s charitable programs. Read more 
”That treats falsehood like a hockey puck being moved up and down the ice, and forces each candidate into goalie pads.”
— Jim Rutenberg, on the suggestion that it is not within a debate moderator’s purview to point out when a presidential candidate makes an 
• Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank, will present his views on economic and monetary developments to the European Parliament Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
• Neel Kashkari, head of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, will open the fourth symposium on Ending Too Big to Fail in Minneapolis, MN.
• Daniel K. Tarullo, a Fed governor, will talk about stress testing at the Yale School of Management Leaders Forum.
• Robert S. Kaplan, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, will speak at the annual convention for the Independent Bankers Association of Texas.
• Jack Dorsey, the chief executive of Twitter, will give the keynote speech at the Sifma Capital Markets annual meeting.