
We obtained more than five hours of interviews that Mr. Trump granted before beginning his run for president. They 
Colin L. Powell, the Republican former secretary of state, said 
A U.N. spokesman said smuggling was “on an almost industrial scale.”
In Calais, the clearing of the migrant camp known as the Jungle continues, but 
Boris Johnson, the foreign secretary and a former mayor of London, opposes the project, calling it “undeliverable.” Sadiq Khan, the current mayor, 
Militants with the Shabab claimed responsibility for an 
NATO said it was concerned that the 15 warplanes on board the Admiral Kuznetsov could join the bombardment of Syria. The Soviet-era warship is expected to reach the Syrian coast later this month.
The German automaker said it would start buying back some of the nearly half a million polluting diesel vehicles sold in America within weeks.
“The truth is rarely pretty, and this is a book that nails the reader to the cross with cheerful abandon,” one of the judges said.
Mr. Obama will visit Greece and Germany next month, 
Military skirmishes between Pakistan and India occur with distressing frequency in Kashmir. 
The source of the friction was set on this day in 1947, when the ruler of what had been the Princely State of Jammu and Kashmir signed a declaration giving control of the territory to India.
Maharajah Hari Singh, above, had hoped to steer Kashmir through independence from Britain into its own independent identity, just as India and Pakistan were doing.
An invasion by tribesmen from Pakistan’s northern frontier left Singh desperate for military aid. A Hindu, he secured the help from India — at the cost of independence for his predominantly Muslim people.
The post-independence war between India and Pakistan left Pakistan in control of the northern and western parts of Kashmir, and China won control over areas in the east during the Sino-Indian War of 1962.
A long-running 
Even so, some Kashmiris still hope the maharajah’s quest for independence will one day succeed.