
LONDON — “We’re not at the heights of 2010 and 2011, but the market has definitely recovered its mojo,” said Henry Howard-Sneyd, Sotheby’s chairman of Asian art, who was the auctioneer in New York this month when an 18th-century Chinese teapot sold for $3.5 million, more than 10 times the low estimate.
The teapot was one of the star lots in Sotheby’s biannual “Asia Week” auctions that raised $60.4 million. Thanks to the presence of two prestigious single-owner collections, the total proceeds from the series was 149 percent higher than the equivalent series last September. All five of the Sotheby’s auctions exceeded their high estimates. Christie’s rival sales of Asian art in New York took $58.6 million, an 8 percent increase on September 2015, with an overall selling rate of 89 percent across its eight auctions.
Brexit, the impending U.S. presidential election and general macroeconomic jitters might have 
“A sense of depth is back,” added Mr. Howard-Sneyd, commenting on the number of bidders from China, Hong Kong and Taiwan vying for the lots in New York. Sotheby’s said that collectors from Asia purchased 58 percent of the lots and accounted for 75 percent of the value of the sales. In the case of the 18th-century famille-rose “Hui Mountain Retreat” teapot, more than half a dozen bidders competed before it was bought by an Asian collector.
Finely painted with a scene of tea being served in a garden, it bore a poem by the Qianlong emperor celebrating his fondness for the brew. The pot had been owned by the renowned American collector Murrell Rickards Bowden Werth, who died in 2014.
“Things with an imperial connection have real pulling-power for the Chinese,” Mr. Howard-Sneyd said. “And if it has been in a Western collection 30 or more years, it can’t be a recent fake, which gives them confidence.”
Back in 2011, worldwide auction sales of Chinese antiques reached $3.4 billion, considerably more than the $2.4 billion achieved for Impressionist and post-Impressionist art, according to the 2016 Art Market Report published by Tefaf in March. Over the past four years, as the Chinese government has cracked down on gift-giving and 
Market-fresh pieces with desirable provenances remain the main draw for Chinese bidders at auction. On Sept. 15, Christie’s offered a second tranche of mainly Song dynasty ceramics from the Linyushanren Collection, owned by a private Japanese individual, whose first auction raised about $6.3 million in December at Christie’s in Hong Kong. Part II (there is one more sale to come) included a rare Southern Song dynasty (1127-1279) black ware “oil spot” tea bowl from the Jian kilns that has been documented as being owned by Japan’s Kuroda clan, possibly as far back as the 16th century.
The bowl’s exceptional iron oxide glaze, resembling a constellation of stars, was also much admired, inspiring a protracted duel between three bidders up to a final price of $11.7 million against an estimate of $1.5 million to $2.5 million. The successful buyer was a Chinese telephone bidder.
The result once again underlined the growing desirability of the technically brilliant, but aesthetically austere, Song ceramics with Chinese collectors, who have traditionally preferred more decorative 18th-century porcelain. Christie’s said that buyers from mainland China and Hong Kong bought 75 percent of the lots at its “Asia Week” sales, with American and Japanese collectors most prominent among the remaining 25 percent.
Later that day Christie’s offered 204 lots of Chinese ceramics that American collectors had gifted over the last 100 years or so to the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Museum deaccessions can be controversial, but the Met made it clear that the works being offered were mainly duplicates unlikely to be ever displayed and that the money raised would be used to fund other purchases.
The prestige of the Met provenance proved irresistible. All the lots sold, raising $12.1 million against a low estimate of $3.5 million. A Kangxi period (1662-1722) peach bloom-glazed vase topped the auction at $2 million, more than double its high estimate, while a blue and white jar of the same period — of a common type that dealers struggle to sell for $2,000 — took $20,000.
“Those peach bloom vases were made in eight shapes in the Kangxi period,” said James Lally, a specialist dealer in historic Chinese art based in New York, adding that they were popular in the United States at the turn of the century. “The Met had 108 of them.”
The market for classic Chinese furniture is also on a roll, with $845,000 given at Christie’s on Sept. 16 for a late Ming dynasty huanghuali wood six-post canopy bed, estimated at $300,000 to $500,000.
The other standout price of the week was the $9.5 million, double the estimate, paid by an Asian bidder at Sotheby’s on Sept. 14 for a nearly 16-foot-long section from a late 17th-century scroll recording in minute detail the Kangxi Emperor’s Southern Inspection Tour. Created by the admired artist Wang Hui and assistants, this was the most prized of 122 lots of classical Chinese paintings amassed in the 1980s and ‘90s by the Arizona collectors Roy and Marilyn Papp. Mr. Papp died in 2011, his widow in March, prompting the sale of the collection. It raised $32.2 million, more than three times the low estimate.
Of course, it is unwise to read trends from a single series of auctions, which are always subject to the vagaries of consignment. These September sales featured an unusually desirable group of single-owner collections. But the auction market for historic Chinese art, unlike many other areas of the market at the moment, is showing signs of growth.
For the Chinese, and for many connoisseurs in the wider world, this is art with immutable value. Can we say the same about Christopher Wool?