
Hillary Clinton and Donald J. Trump are now tied in a general election matchup, with each receiving the support of 40 percent of voters, 
Mrs. Clinton has emerged from the F.B.I. investigation into her email practices as a wounded candidate — 67 percent of voters say she is not trustworthy.
Justice 
Mr. Trump, who is voicing the anger of 
President Obama will participate in a town-hall-style meeting today on race and policing (8 p.m. Eastern, ABC and ESPN). A New York Times/CBS News poll found that nearly 70 percent of Americans 
Mr. Obama said in a meeting with law enforcement officials and Black Lives Matters activists in Washington that tensions between the police and African-Americans were 
In a rare instance of consensus, the Senate overwhelmingly approved a bill to tackle 
Mr. Obama is expected to sign the measure, which would strengthen prevention, treatment and recovery efforts by giving medical professionals and law enforcement officials more tools to help addicts.
Average health spending will 
The president acknowledges that his 
Britain’s new leader, 
In one of her first acts, 
President François Hollande of France will give the traditional nationally televised 
And the Philando Castile shooting has catapulted 
If 
But legal experts agree it would be a long shot. The case has become such a part of pop culture that at least one law professor is teaching a course on the subject. (
The 
One of the topics of conversation as the competition gets underway is the withdrawal 
It’s been a year since NASA’s New Horizons spacecraft flew by 
In this 
When thousands of Parisians stormed the Bastille prison on this day in 1789, an event celebrated as the start of the decade-long French Revolution, at least one observer had personal experience in helping start his own country’s revolution.
As the crowds on the streets swelled and the chaos grew, the author of the American 
Jefferson was appointed U.S. minister to France in 
France’s military and financial support for the American colonies had further sunk its own economy, bringing its government to the precipice.
A food shortage and high taxes drove a mob to the Bastille, a medieval fortress, on July 14. “They took all the arms, discharged the prisoners,” reported Jefferson, who then described the rabble carrying off the top two prison officials. They “cut off their heads, and sent them through the city in triumph to the Palais Royal,” he wrote in letters sent to the U.S.
The Marquis de Lafayette 