
BEIJING — Donald J. Trump isn’t Mr. Popular in Beijing lately. But China’s ruling elite seems to be consoling itself with the idea that the American president-elect will take charge of a country staggering into decline and disunion.
A flow of articles in Communist Party publications in recent weeks has argued that the United States’ tumultuous past year showed it to be dysfunctional and dissolute, and blighted by corruption, social and political polarization, reckless debt and an enfeebled news media.
“Can an American Dream sick with the American Disease last for long?” read a headline in the 
“America’s political problems have long been the instigator of its other problems,” said the accompanying essay, by a researcher from the 
“The clear and unequivocal slide in the public’s belief in the ‘American dream’ directly reflects their lack of optimism in the country’s future and their own prospects,” wrote the researcher, Liu Weidong. “The American political system that once was their greatest pride has constantly proven powerless to restrain the despicable conduct of incompetent politicians.”
Some of the comments appeared before Mr. Trump irked the Chinese government by having a 
The Chinese government says that policy, which keeps Taiwan diplomatically isolated, is a bedrock of relations with Washington.
A spokesman for the Chinese government’s Taiwan Affairs Office reinforced that warning on Wednesday.
“If this basis suffers from meddling and destruction, then the healthy and stable development of Sino-American relations is out of the question, and the peace and stability of the Taiwan Strait will suffer a serious impact,” the spokesman, An Fengshan, told a 
Dim views of America’s prospects are, of course, not only found in China.
The rancorous election and Mr. Trump’s victory have stirred up plenty of gloomy commentary from critics on the left and the right in the United States as well as around the world.
And even before Mr. Trump’s victory, the Chinese state news media 
But these postelection jeremiads suggest that researchers and ideologues who shape and reflect official Chinese views of the United States put little store in Mr. Trump’s vow to “make America great again.”
In China, there has for years been debate between researchers who see the United States as in decline and those who believe that the country’s strength and capacity for renewal remain formidable.
The first view is more prevalent now, especially as President Xi Jinping, who took power in 2012, has focused intensely on what he 
“Mainstream Chinese views of the United States have shifted from admiration to doubt, especially after the financial crisis, and now increasingly to rejection of its values,” 
“Among elite scholars, fewer and fewer voice awe of the United States,” Mr. Shi said. “Trump’s victory, like ‘Brexit,’ is seen as an opportunity for the official media to teach the public they have no reason to envy the West.”
People’s Daily, the chief newspaper of the Communist Party, has for the past three Sundays devoted one of its broadsheet pages to dissecting America’s maladies.
“Currently, America is facing major domestic reforms that require someone who is farsighted and shrewd,” said 
“Is Trump the man for this? People have different views,” said the writer, 
The second part of the series excoriated the American news media, including The New York Times, for failing to anticipate and explain Mr. Trump’s rise, especially among blue-collar voters.
“It’s difficult for such a media to reflect the realities of America,” read 
The latest in the series argued that Mr. Trump’s policies would take the United States’ already dangerous budget deficit to even more perilous heights.
“It will be hard to avoid a snowballing increase in debt levels,” one of the articles said. “Without doubt, the American government’s debt situation is unsustainable.”
There is some irony in all this — not least, in a heavily censored party-run paper that faithfully echoes official views scolding the American news media for failing to take on the powerful.
China’s own problems with debt have also raised alarm with investors, and Mr. Xi’s crackdown on official corruption has revealed levels of plunder that have no equivalent in Washington.
And while Chinese politicians like to criticize the United States, they also often send their children there to study. Mr. Xi’s own daughter, for example, attended Harvard.
How long and intensely the criticism persists will depend on Mr. Trump’s policies after he takes office, said Qiao Mu, a liberal commentator and researcher at 
“They always have two faces. One is talking up the friendship between China and the United States, but there is also the criticism and suspicion of America and its political system,” Mr. Qiao said. “When a leader is preparing to visit, there’ll always be upbeat reports.”