
CAPE TOWN, South Africa — “They steal our jobs. They steal our women. They sell drugs.” The conversation about migrants could have been taking place on any street corner in London, a post-”Brexit” conversation in a climate increasingly hostile to anyone perceived as an outsider.
In fact, these words are part of a scene in “
In “A Man of Good Hope,” Isango enacts, through speech, music and dance from several African cultures, the harrowing tale of Asad Abdullahi, a Somalian migrant to South Africa. The story is based on the 2015 
It seems an unlikely subject for a musical ensemble that has until now celebrated, rather than critiqued, its post-democracy society. But David Lan, the director of the Young Vic, who had worked with Isango on “The Magic Flute (Impempe Yomlingo),” said that when he read the book in late 2014, he immediately thought of the troupe.
“The refugee crisis in Europe had begun, and I was struck by the parallels,” he said in April in Cape Town, where he had been working with Mark Dornford-May, the British-born director of Isango, and the performers. Mr. Lan, who grew up in South Africa but moved to Britain in his early 20s, met Mr. Dornford-May some years after he had formed the Isango Ensemble by recruiting singers from the township of 
After Mr. Dornford-May had read the book, he approached the company. “I knew it would be difficult for us because this is an intense look at the situation in South Africa, and so far we’ve specialized in adapting classics,” he said during an April conversation in Cape Town. “But I felt we were mature enough as a company to go for it.”
Later that day, several company members were frank about their initial ambivalence, and spoke of living with the issues that the book explores. “There is a lot of resentment about how the foreigners, specially Somalians, manage to open shops so easily, whether they pay tax or are registered,” said Zamile Gantana, who plays several roles in the production. He added that reading the book had been eye-opening. “We never knew why the Somalians had come here, about the civil war there,” he said. “It was a realization that the world is full of vultures.”
Pauline Malefane, a soprano who shares the music direction of the company with Mandisi Dyantyis (and is married to Mr. Dornford-May), said that she had practical reservations about creating a musical piece from a book, but also worried that it would show South Africa in a bad light. But she added, “I realized it was a way of presenting our view and our history, too.”
Months later, reflecting on the process before a preview show on Saturday in London, Mr. Dornford-May said that it had been “a complex and difficult” story to tell. “We are working with people who feel these things as real issues in their daily lives, not as abstract concepts,” he said.
Mr. Steinberg, a professor in the African Studies department at Oxford, said that the idea of opening up the book’s perspective had an immediate appeal. “It was a hard book to write because Asad’s point of view about South Africa was so dark,” he said in a telephone interview from Oxford. “There were many times I wanted to pull away from that, but in the end I felt I couldn’t. What is missing from the book is the perspective of black South Africans.” He added, “To hand over the story to a township ensemble and have them tell it seemed fascinating to me.”
To develop the show, the company followed its usual process. “We break up into groups and offer different ways of presenting particular episodes,” Mr. Dornford-May said. “Then we combine or build on that. The creative impulse comes from the company; it’s not my vision. I am shaping things, more like a choreographer than a typical director.”
At the same time, Mr. Dyantyis was creating the score, which uses marimbas and percussion, and incorporates music from Kenya, Ethiopia, Tanzania, Zambia and Zimbabwe to evoke Asad’s migration. “Deciding on the balance of text and music is an ongoing discussion throughout rehearsals,” he said. “The music always has to play the role of telling the story better.’’
Mr. Steinberg said that he had played a “peripheral” role in the evolution of the show after first seeing it in Cape Town. “I think it has found the balance between telling, lucidly and powerfully, a story about democratic South Africa, while keeping Asad in a central place,” he said. (Mr. Abdullahi, now living with his family in the United States, did not want to read the book, Mr. Steinberg said, nor has he expressed interest in Isango’s production.)
Mr. Lan summed up the show differently. “It’s a story in an obscure Cape Town township, but now that story is everywhere.”