
This three-story mansion, built around 1870, is on almost 10 acres in the pastoral Weald region of the county of Kent in southeast England. In addition to the main house, known as Ellerslie House, the property includes an attached two-bedroom guest cottage, a detached three-car garage, a gymnasium building, a heated swimming pool, a tennis court, ponds and various gardens. An extensive restoration and renovation of the 8,100-square-foot house was carried out between 2010 and 2013.
The property is entered through electronically operated wrought-iron gates on a gravel drive. The house’s main entrance opens into a large reception hall that provides access to the spacious dining and drawing rooms, which look out on parklike grounds. Both have high ceilings, floor-to-ceiling windows, decorative molding and fireplaces with marble surrounds.
An adjoining hall leads to the kitchen, which has heated limestone flooring, walnut cabinets, black granite countertops and a three-oven Aga stove. Off the kitchen is a glass-ceilinged dining area with French doors opening onto a courtyard. Also on the ground floor are a family room, equipped for theater-style movie viewing, a home office and a study.
Upstairs, the large master bedroom is lined with windows overlooking the grounds. Its dressing room has heated limestone floors, a pedestal tub, in-wall television and an adjoining shower room. The remaining six bedrooms are distributed between this floor and the upper level, along with three baths. The top floor also has a small kitchen that could be useful for a live-in au pair or other resident staff.
The two-story guest cottage is reached by way of a utility room off the kitchen; it also has its own entrance. The cottage has a kitchen and a sitting room on the ground floor, with two bedrooms and a bath upstairs.
Outside, the gymnasium building opens onto a courtyard with a fire pit and barbecue area. A pavilion beside the pool has a small kitchen and changing rooms. The sweeping lawns slope down to several tiered ponds that flow into one large pond.
The property is about three miles from the center of the historic town of Cranbrook, once a center for cloth manufacturing and known for its tall 19th-century 
Gatwick Airport is less than 40 miles away. Rail service to London is available in Staplehurst, about a 20-minute drive. The train ride to London is about an hour.
Kent, like the rest of Britain, experienced significant price declines during the financial crisis, with the low point being around mid-2009, according to Liam Bailey, the head of residential research for Knight Frank in London. Between 2010 and 2013, prices were flat.
“Now, prices have crept up generally to about 15 percent below the peak,” with some pockets, like Sevenoaks and Tonbridge, even higher because of their highly regarded schools and proximity to London, said Rupert Sweeting, head of Knight Frank’s country house department.
Data provided by Knight Frank shows prices in the Cranbrook area rose 9 percent last year, on top of a 10 percent increase in 2014. But price growth in Kent as a whole began to slow this year, Mr. Bailey said.
“The problem at the moment is you have a lot of uncertainty around the ‘Brexit’ decision,” he said, referring to last month’s referendum vote favoring Britain’s departure from the European Union. “I would say, though, that the impact is more on a slower number of sales rather than prices at the current time. We’re probably down about 10 percent year-on-year at the moment.”
Inventory in Kent is low, partly because many would-be sellers were holding off until after the referendum, Mr. Sweeting said. He predicts more properties will come to market in coming months, and expects a rise in international buyers taking advantage of the recent drop in the pound.
Buyers in the county of Kent are typically commuters into London, professionals who can work remotely, and families looking for good schools. They may be of international origin “but are probably living in the U.K. already,” Mr. Sweeting said.
Affluent Londoners who are drawn to Kent’s rolling countryside find that they can get a substantial property in exchange for what they own in the city, Ms. Hancock said. “Someone who lives, say, in Kensington or Chelsea and has a large three-bedroom apartment can sell and, for the same money, buy a property like this one out in Kent,” she said.
There are no restrictions on foreign buyers in England.
All buyers must pay the government a 
Buyers should also figure in around 10,000 pounds, or $13,300, for a lawyer to handle the transaction and about 5,000 pounds, or $6,650, for a property survey, she said.
Kent tourism site: 
Cranbrook community site: 
Tunbridge Wells tourism site: 
English; pound sterling (1 pound = $1.33)
The council tax (normally paid monthly) is 3,190 pounds, or about $4,243, annually for Ellerslie House, and 1,949 pounds, or $2,592, for the cottage, according to Ms. Hancock.
Linda Wesson, Hamptons International, (011 44) 1892 516 611;