
The country “has reached the end of the road when it comes to its export- and investment-led growth model,” one analyst said.
Our financial reporter 
• 
The Islamic State is also on the 
Also in Syria, Russia and the Syrian government 
“It’s unprecedented,” Mr. Obama said of Mr. Trump’s accusations that the coming American presidential election is rigged. “It happens to be based on no facts.” Mr. Obama spoke at a news conference with the Italian prime minister.
Mr. Trump and Mrs. Clinton, who has been off the campaign trail for days, face off in their third and final debate on Wednesday.
After the king died last week, the prince said he was not ready to take the throne.
The government disputed the assertion by WikiLeaks that the decision was made because of U.S. pressure. President Rafal Correa 
transcript
Zhang Sitong’s Galaxy Note 7 smartphone caught fire in the city of Fushun, China, on September 26, 2016.
The South Korean company said the phone was safe in China even as it recalled more than two million of the phones in the United States and elsewhere.
Now one of Australia’s largest resort and casino operators is in trouble, with 18 of its employees, including a senior executive visiting from Melbourne, 
• 
• 
• 
Topics include the possible creation of two huge Antarctic marine sanctuaries and the protection of 
The stock market has hit near-record heights this year, despite myriad reasons for anxiety: the U.S. presidential elections, “Brexit,” China’s economic slowdown.
But some analysts 
The Dow Jones industrial average fell more than 500 points in New York, a 22.6 percent decline that remains the largest in the index’s history — even outstripping the 1929 plunge that heralded the Great Depression. Investors in U.S. stocks lost 
Computerized trading systems were new, enabling a sell-off at a scale not seen before. More than 600 million shares were traded in New York, above. The American Stock Exchange’s disk drives 
High-speed trading and communications amplified the crash around the world. Japan took record losses. Hong Kong stopped trading for the rest of the week. Europe’s markets were in free fall. “We’ve never had anything like this,” a European trader said.
But a crisis on the scale of the Great Depression did not materialize. The drop, in the end, was far more modest than that of 2008. And the markets fully recovered within two years.