
When Riz Ahmed, the rising British-Pakistani actor, came to New York to shoot the pilot episode of HBO’s 
“I turned up with a terrible Queens accent,” said Mr. Ahmed, whose character, Nasir Khan, is the son of a taxi driver in Jackson Heights. Mr. Suri, who was born in that borough to Punjabi parents, offered to show him around, even introducing the actor to his family. “My dad drove a cab, so that kind of made sense,” Mr. Suri said.
In addition to being a first-generation, college-educated South Asian with working-class parents, Mr. Ahmed had something even more specific in common with Mr. Suri: He, too, made wry and politically provocative rap music. With their chemistry and cultural overlap too resonant to ignore, they soon formed a duo, the Swet Shop Boys, uploading 
But a funny thing happened before they could release their debut album: Mr. Ahmed, 33, got much more famous as an actor.
Now, having graduated from indie films — including “Four Lions” and “Nightcrawler” — to parts in “Jason Bourne,” the next Star Wars movie (
In April, he released the mixtape 
Lyrically, Mr. Ahmed and Mr. Suri puncture current events and geopolitical preoccupations with a tart satirical edge and an emphasis on identity, especially the portrayal and perceptions of brown men like themselves — in politics, pop music, Hollywood, airports and beyond.
“Trump want my exit, but if he press the red button to watch Netflix, bruv, I’m on,” Mr. Ahmed raps in a thick British accent on the single 
Mr. Suri, 31, a former member of 
Mr. Ahmed grew up in London, idolizing American rappers from his older brother’s early 1990s cassettes (the D.O.C., Tupac Shakur) before immersing himself in underground British rave culture, rap battles and pirate radio. He also graduated from Oxford University and the Central School for Speech and Drama.
In 2006, his first single as Riz MC, 
“There’s a saying: You wait three hours for a London bus, and then three of them come all at once,” Mr. Ahmed said of his heightened profile in each realm. “People that didn’t know I was an actor were going, ‘Riz MC is in “Bourne!”’ And people that didn’t know I did music are going, ‘The dude from “Nightcrawler” did this “Englistan” thing!’”
He added: “We live in a world where people build up cultural capital in one field and then cash it in across others. I’m proud to say that’s really not me.”
Mr. Ahmed also laughed off any suggestion that his firebrand rap persona could present a conflict with his role in the Disney-owned, billion-dollar “Star Wars” universe, mocking the idea of a cigar-chomping movie executive’s even acknowledging his music.
Swet Shop Boys is less a side project than a parallel one for Mr. Ahmed, with both parts of his career serving a similar purpose in increasing representation for South Asians in culture. “Figureheads don’t solve systemic racism or structural problems, but it helps with aspiration,” he said. “It’s good to feel visible.”
Mr. Suri’s career in music and art has addressed similar concerns, most forcefully on his solo releases 
There are more serious concerns as well. “Aaja” includes the sampled voice of 
In working together, Mr. Ahmed and Mr. Suri found kinship, but with enough divergence to be educational. “There’s this whole parallel reality where there’s people just like you, but with subtly different gifts and curses to their experience,” Mr. Ahmed said of his American counterpart. “Joining those diasporic dots is just really healing.”
In the studio, the pair even found their disparate creative methods to be coming from a similar place of first-generation angst. “There’s the working-class immigrant in me thinking, ‘This is not a real job, so I’ve got to make it as complicated as possible,’” said Mr. Ahmed, who obsessively tweaks his rapid verses.
Mr. Suri is more prone to trust-your-gut improvisation. “I go the other route: ‘I should be working a desk job, so let me just get this thing over as quickly as I can,’” he said. “I don’t want to have to think about the fact that I’m an aaar-tist.”
After all, he added, “What kind of kid from my neighborhood becomes an artist?”