
To understand where Parag Khanna is coming from with “Connectography,” you have to start with his acknowledgments. He recognizes the assistance he received from a plethora of institutions spanning four continents. Khanna thanks the National University of Singapore, the Q Symposium at the University of Sydney, the New America Foundation, the United States Geospatial Intelligence Foundation, the London School of Economics, Zurich Insurance, the New Cities Foundation and McKinsey & Company. That is impressive, but not as impressive as the 400 or so people he thanks for helping him with this “book about everything.” Parag Khanna may well be the most connected man alive.
“Connectography” represents Khanna’s latest effort to arbitrage his personal networking skills into a theory of geopolitics. He is interested in how connectivity and geography will affect the future of global affairs, and he makes his thesis clear in the first few pages: “We are moving into an era where cities will matter more than states and supply chains will be a more important source of power than militaries — whose main purpose will be to protect supply chains rather than borders. Competitive connectivity is the arms race of the 21st century.” He spends the rest of this book attempting to demonstrate that connectivity is destiny, taking the reader from the steppes of Mongolia to the streets of Detroit to the shimmering spires of Dubai.
Trying to assess a Khanna book is something of a challenge. Four years ago in The New Republic, Evgeny Morozov wrote the most scathing review I have ever read. It was of an e-book written by Parag Khanna and his wife, Ayesha Khanna. Morozov devoted thousands of words eviscerating the Khannas’ approach as the apotheosis of “slick ahistorical jeremiads on geopolitics.” Rereading Morozov, I still wince at the venom. And yet Khanna’s brand of globaloney, with phrases like “It’s time to reimagine how human life is organized on Earth,” seems to invite this kind of response. He describes himself as a “leading global strategist” on his website, which is one of those cool-­sounding titles that don’t mean much when you think about them.
To be more charitable than Morozov, I would say there is a thin and interesting essay nestled inside the enormous pile of fluff that is “Connectography.” In that essay, Khanna could have honed his case for continued economic openness at a time when tribalism is on the rise. In a world of super-low interest rates, Khanna correctly infers that it is in every government’s interest to invest more heavily in the infrastructure that enhances connectivity. This could take the form of physical infrastructure like roads and airports, or online infrastructure to facilitate data flows, or financial hubs to coax cross-­border investment. Developed countries facing demographic crunches should be far more welcoming of migration flows from the developing world. Khanna might even be on to something in talking about the enhanced role that cities will play in 21st-century governance.
But the fluff is voluminous. Khanna and his editors clearly believe that his prose style is a winning one, but for this reader it was like struggling through the transcription of a TED talk on a recursive loop. Take, for example, what he means by “connectivity.” It’s not the most elegant of words, but an intelligent reader can quickly divine its meaning. Khanna does not leave the term alone, however. He describes connectivity as a “mega-pattern,” a “world-historical idea” and “an impulse” — all in the span of a single paragraph.
Once you get past the prose, the inchoate nature of Khanna’s ideas is even more troubling. When he writes about international relations, he makes much of the “Great Supply Chain War that will redraw 21st-century maps as much as the Thirty Years’ War did in the 17th century.” Khanna argues that the more embedded a country is in these global supply chains, the more power and influence it exercises. In his words, “today power derives from leverage exercised through connective reach.”
As China discovered when it tried to use its near monopoly of rare earths to pressure Japan six years ago, however, producer leverage is extremely limited. China was able to employ this form of belligerent statecraft once. Ever since, its share of that market has dwindled. The same is true of other commodity exporters that Khanna extols. In a world where commodity prices are sagging and governments are falling over each other to improve their connectivity, the strategic value of any individual connection or source of supply erodes. The more China expands its Silk Road initiatives, the less the Strait of Malacca matters. Khanna himself acknowledges this point. Indeed, Khanna demonstrates the rare ability in “Connectography” to contradict himself in the span of a single sentence: ­“Devolution-aggregation is how the world comes together by falling apart.”
More generally, Khanna radically overestimates producer power and under­estimates financial power. This might be because, like many based in Singapore, Khanna treats China as a country that can do no wrong and the United States as a country that can do no right. Nevertheless, it leads to strange moments in the text, like his insistence that financial sanctions against Iran had no appreciable effect.
What is particularly odd is that Khanna believes he is evincing a savvy worldview and yet offers a utopian vision of connectivity’s effect on people. He insists that the forces of connection will overwhelm the forces of division. In the book’s most blasé sentence, Khanna argues that “the virtues of tolerance and coexistence will come to the Middle East through a combination of ‘to each his own’ cartographic remapping and supply chain interdependence.” I would gently suggest that there will be a very long and very violent stretch between the current Middle East and Khanna’s placid vision — and that it’s the bumpy part that is salient right now.
What’s more, “Connectography” is a victim of awful timing. It argues that territory and borders do not matter just when Russia has annexed Crimea and extended its influence in Ukraine, and when China is changing facts on the ground in the South China Sea. Khanna argues that the European Union is a template for managing the simultaneous forces of integration and devolution, though Europe today is beset with economic stagnation, xenophobic backlash against refugees, ascendant far-right parties and a possible “Brexit.” Khanna wants to use the global supply chain to explain the world. ­However, the McKinsey Global Institute reports that global flows as a percentage of output have fallen from 53 percent in 2007 to 39 percent in 2014 — in no small part because of “the cost of managing complex, lengthy supply chains.” It is possible that in a few years, these trends will reverse themselves, but Khanna offers no explanation as to how.
I wish that Khanna were right about the power of connectivity. The world would be a better place. I fear, however, that he does not know what he is talking about.