
It was the year politics took over our closets, and clothes went beyond products to become positions.
From the moment in early February when Beyoncé strode onto the field at the Levi’s Stadium in Santa Clara, Calif., for the 
In a world of white noise and factional cacophony, a world where the first line of communication is visual, clothes are our shared language. Whether you like what you see or not, you can read it.
Once upon a time “political dress” meant the dress of the political class. In 2016, it became a term donned by everyone — and damned by some. Practically every month.
In April, Laurence Rossignol, the French minister for women’s rights, fired the first salvo at what became the fashion lightning rod of the summer: the Burkini. Ms. Rossignol scolded 
By August, the issue had 
It was but one sartorial story in a summer where wardrobes spoke as loudly as any words (and in turn spurred a lot of them).
In May, in a nod to the opening of Cuba, Karl Lagerfeld took the 
In June, British designers began to publicly declare their 
In July, 
That month also saw the election of 
Standing onstage at the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia, Mrs. Clinton made history as the first woman to be a major party nominee for president, but in case you missed the import, her white 
And so it went.
By September, there was no holding back: The look of autumn was the look of the American election. New York Fashion Week kicked off the day with 
In October, the “pantsuit power” flash mob, 170 dancers strong, took to the streets in New York’s Union Square wearing, natch, a rainbow of pantsuits to demonstrate their support of Mrs. Clinton; the resulting video has been seen over 91,000 times.
And on Nov. 8 those women who intended to vote for the first female president adopted both sartorial stratagems, and went to the polls in 
Though their candidate lost, the point remained, embedded in the fabric of social media and, now, recent history. The year may be over. But the change in our wardrobes — the change in how we think about the fabric of our lives — is just beginning.