
LONDON — You might expect London’s summer theater to take on a correspondingly sunny hue, but no. While the stage event of the season, “
That is the case with “Jesus Christ Superstar,” the early collaboration between Andrew Lloyd Webber and the lyricist Tim Rice that began as a concept album in 1970 before being reconfigured for the stage with varying degrees of success.
Until now, I have never come across an approach to this piece that taps into its latent power, which is too often sacrificed to directorial overkill. As reinvigorated by the director Timothy Sheader for the Open Air Theater in Regent’s Park, “Superstar” delivers a genuinely primal jolt, locating fear and foreboding in what can so easily devolve into overindulgent camp. The production plays outdoors through Aug. 27, and there is talk of a commercial transfer to the West End. I would catch it in this setting while you can.
By recalling the origins of “Superstar” as a rock opera, Mr. Sheader gives it the feeling of an especially intense gig, albeit one tricked out with glitter dust and an industrial-looking set — from Tom Scutt, a 2016 Tony nominee —that contributes to the hard-edged feel of the whole.
Factor in choreography from Drew McOnie, a 2016 Olivier winner for “In the Heights,” whose lack of abandon prompts first admiration and then —as the material requires — fear, and the production manages to be serious without being solemn, all the while delivering that famously pulsating score.
Taken in conjunction with Mr. Lloyd Webber’s current Broadway offering, “School of Rock,” “Superstar” affirms the impression that the composer is rarely happier than when he lets his inner musical rebel rock out.
Visible throughout on the stage floor is a crucifix that gets deployed in not entirely expected ways at the inevitable ending, where it then emits a sulfurous glow; all credit there to Lee Curran’s lighting. Until that time, Declan Bennett’s bearded, instantly commanding Jesus suggests a hipster embarking on a collision course with an increasingly crazed mob.
His descent into the bloodied and shaken Jesus on the cross has a startling force that makes the case for a potentially dated piece that exists aesthetically somewhere between “Hair” and “Rent” as an enduring passion play.
Mr. Bennett was a recessive presence several years ago in the London premiere of the Broadway musical “Once,” but his casual appeal works perfectly here, allowing for an element of surprise when this sandal-wearing troubadour tears into “Gethsemane,” Jesus’s defining second-act solo. But the entire cast delivers, starting with the vocal powerhouse that is Tyrone Huntley’s Judas — Mr. Huntley will be seen in the London premiere of “Dreamgirls” later this year — and the easy charm of Anoushka Lucas as Mary Magdalene, who projects a figure of calm amid a gathering chaos that at times evokes a Donald Trump rally run amok.
Jane Fonda may not have been crucified, but the venerable actress certainly paid a price when her antiwar activities resulted in the sobriquet “Hanoi Jane” — around the same time, in fact, that “Jesus Christ Superstar” was crossing the Atlantic from Broadway to London in 1972.
“The Trial of Jane Fonda,” the unyieldingly earnest Terry Jastrow play at North London’s Park Theater through Aug. 20, is therefore best seen as a chance to set the record straight on the legacy of a two-time Oscar-winner. In the play, Ms. Fonda’s character is called to account by a cross-section of Vietnam veterans for actions that continue to bedevil her in some quarters (though not by the audience; the matinee I attended brought some playgoers to their feet).
I wish I shared that enthusiasm for what amounts to a self-conscious and not especially dramatic reckoning with the past, especially as proffered by the director Joe Harmston and a mostly male cast who go rather exaggeratedly for broke. The lone woman in their belligerent midst is the 1987 Oscar nominee Anne Archer (“Fatal Attraction”) playing an attractive if strangely milquetoast version of Ms. Fonda herself. (Ms. Archer is also Mr. Jastrow’s wife.)
It’s no spoiler to reveal that the play leads to an acquittal after the fact, by which time the onstage Jane has choked back tears and spoken of war as “male ego vs. male ego.” I was most taken by a set from Sean Cavanagh that overlays a map of Vietnam and listings of military conflicts through the ages on an American flag. “The Trial of Jane Fonda” may amount to little more than theatrical score-settling, but its backdrop of divisive violence remains with us.
By way of proof, ask any of the participants in “Now We Are Here,” which brings the experience of four asylum seekers to the Young Vic’s 60-seat Clare auditorium through Saturday. The evening has two distinct halves: One recounting three refugees’ actual and often-harrowing experiences, the other an original play.
This fleeting if full-bodied theatrical experience, directed with empathy by Ian Rickson, plays out in a theater climate that is unusually engaged in the world beyond its borders just now, perhaps in unspoken reaction to the recent “Brexit” vote. The Royal Court main stage has this week been showing a 15-minute Caryl Churchill play, “Pigs and Dogs,” sparked by the Anti-Homosexuality Act that was passed in Uganda in 2014: Ms. Churchill’s dramatic shards provide a mosaic of bigotry alongside considerations of gender across the centuries as deftly performed by a cast of three.
But “Now We Are Here” on opening night had the benefit of the presence of the very people whose stories were acted out. The smartly dressed 28-year-old Pakistani seated next to me turned out to be the same young man whom the actor Manish Gandhi describes during the first act as being beaten and imprisoned by his father and brother for being gay, only to have found a new life and accompanying liberation in London. (Once the performance was over, the actual people joined the actors playing them for the final bow.)
After the intermission, the shining-faced Golda Rosheuvel took the stage in a solo play by Tamara McFarlane about a Jamaican teenager whose discovery of her same-sex feelings exists against a backdrop of vigilante rule. One takes away from “Now We Are Here” great pride in the courage of the individuals presented alongside an abiding wish that an often unforgiving world can — or will — just let them be.