
In the new film “Captain Fantastic,” Viggo Mortensen plays Ben, an off-the-grid patriarch raising his six children to be intellectuals and survivalists in equal measure — “philosopher kings” as adept at discussing Marxist theory and speaking Esperanto as they are at hunting game. “The kids have to express some pretty mature ideas and concepts,” Mortensen says. “They have to verbalize things that would be difficult even for an adult actor to sound convincing or knowledgeable about. That takes time, a real effort to get the right casting down and to work with them.”
Before shooting began, the film’s director, Matt Ross, provided Mortensen with a reading list to help him understand his character. As it turned out, however, Mortensen was already familiar with everything on it except for, he says, “a couple very specialized books about Olympic athlete training.” Mortensen, like his character, has spent much of his life split between the outdoors and intellectual pursuits, and he came to set prepared. “I arrived in Washington with a pickup truck full of stuff, including many boxes of books,” he says. “I don’t think he knew that I had lived in the Northwest. I don’t think he knew that I knew about gardening.”
Mortensen, himself, owns a publishing house, 
“I like going out in the woods and camping. For a time, I lived in a house in the middle of the forest. I was raised doing those sorts of things by my dad. When I was little, we’d go camping a lot — he taught me to fish and to hunt. Outdoor activities, outdoor life — I’m just curious about it, and the names of plants, what plants you can use, what plants are poisonous.”
“Obviously the family eats meat, as you can see, from the beginning of the film. The kids don’t know anything other than, if you’re going to eat meat, you caught it or you killed it respectfully. They know what their food source is. They know where their meat comes from.”
“I read some of these back-to-nature books — people who decided to move out of New York City, even back in the ’20s and ’30s, and establish these sorts of communities in New England and other places. It showed how they built their house, trial and error, how they messed up and finally figured out a way — but then the community aspect of it, too, that was interesting. I’ve known some people that have lived that way. In fact, the director, Matt, during his adolescence, his mom started some alternative communities. His family would live in a tepee near a pond and they were quite isolated. I think if there’s anything autobiographical about the film for Matt, it’s that he had this yearning to be around kids his own age.”
“Hinduism, Buddhism, Judaism, Christianity, the Quran. In the film, the children have read all these texts, we’ve discussed them. If one of them wants to be Catholic it’s fine, but 
“The beauty of the character, I guess, for the audience, is regardless of your ideology and what you think of their views, it’s unquestionable that the foundations of this family model is complete, brutal honesty. Constant curiosity and open discourse. Those are pretty good foundations for any family model.”
“Being in shape is a great thing. Striving for physical and intellectual excellence, perfection, even though it’s not possible — but striving for it — is a worthy endeavor. But how much is too much? Obviously we push those boundaries. Is my character the greatest dad in the world or is he a menace to society? If he’s against something, generally speaking, it’s rigidity. Does he not, perhaps, inadvertently become what he’s against by being so obsessive and isolationist?”
“I think part of what makes the movie so believable is that you have the children doing this fitness regime and my character is in incredible shape in the film. It’s totally believable that these people are out there because of the physicality of it. They look like they can do it, and you see them doing it.”
“I would have to say that as a father, although I have always had a good line of communication with my son and I’ve been pretty honest with him about most things, I haven’t gone to the extremes that you see in this movie. Reading this script and watching the movie, I sometimes found it humorous and sometimes found it intimidating. For the 99.9 percent of us who are considerably less energetic and committed in our efforts at physical and intellectual self-improvement, it can make you feel pretty inept and often lazy.”
“Without it being ideological, I think the film touches on what’s happening in the country now: social discord, lack of communication. We do have a communication problem as citizens. It’s not just that the media has hyped up the polarizing rhetoric of the political campaigns — presidential in particular. It’s actually happening. People are compartmentalizing themselves, ignoring others based on their religion, their race, their socioeconomic status, the regions they live in — and it’s a problem.”
“In the ’60s, there were the hippies and new Jesus disciples and New Age Christians, but there’s also been a strain of survivalist culture that can be very xenophobic and militant. This is obviously not that. This film is about a completely different type of family.”