
Museums of modern and contemporary art like to talk a big game about globalism, and their big-tent discourse challenges the old assumption that artists can be naturally grouped together by geography. Yet the fact remains: Western artists get the solo shows, while audiences usually discover art from beyond the United States and Europe through exhibitions with a geographic focus — which lump together diverse and sometimes unrelated artists under a national or regional banner.
The reason is in small part a matter of habit and in large part financial. While curators and artists may be skeptical of geographic frames, donors love them.
At the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, three recent exhibitions showcased new acquisitions from South and Southeast Asia, Latin America and the Middle East, which were 
Now a new show, 
The artists in “Tales of Our Time” — all born between 1970 and 1980, many familiar from the biennial circuit, several new to me — were chosen by
The lingua franca of “Tales of Our Time” is video, but there’s one giant sculpture: a crazed industrial robot equipped with a squeegee, installed in a room-size see-through chamber. Programmed by the Beijing artists 
Subtler and better is the art by 
Two artists, 
Mr. Zhou’s disquieting two-channel 
If “Tales of Our Time” and its bank-backed predecessors serve as initial maneuvers to broaden the museum’s collection, then I’m prepared to see these shows’ geographic straitjackets as necessary evils. And the Guggenheim is indeed planning to present a more global cross-section of modern and contemporary art — in Abu Dhabi, where its controversial planned satellite museum, 12 times the size of Frank Lloyd Wright’s spiral museum in Manhattan, will place art from after 1960 in a worldwide framework.
As for New York, “Tales of Our Time” and the museum’s coming China megaexhibition offer a welcome opportunity to reckon with art we still see too infrequently. I hope, though, that we start to see more solo shows by the likes of Mr. Zhou, as well as thematic exhibitions that let us appreciate him as more than just a national ambassador.