
Rod Laver and Roger Federer are separated by 43 years of age and more millions of dollars than Laver would care to count. But as to which tennis legend produced the richer social stories to pass on for posterity, Federer would readily admit: It’s no contest.
“Playing in venues all across America, almost like a traveling circus, you know?” Federer said of Laver’s far less lucrative but more organic experience.
True tennis historians know how much Laver sacrificed — specifically in the number of possible Grand Slam event victories he deprived himself of, settling for 11 — when he shunned the amateur establishment to become a barnstorming professional in 1963. Federer, the career leader in men’s Grand Slam singles titles with 17, considers himself a student of the past, appreciative of the risks Laver took, the pro Tour groundwork that was laid for him.
“It’s almost hard to grasp, how it all started, to make that decision to go amateur to professional,” Federer said.
“It was money,” Laver explained on Wednesday, standing alongside Federer, his noticeably taller and prodigiously wealthier tennis descendant, after heralding a new event — named for Laver — scheduled to debut in September 2017 in Prague.
Laver said, “I won Wimbledon in ’61 and ’62 and got a firm handshake and a 10-pound voucher.”
No doubt the compensation will be better for the Laver Cup, the brainchild of Federer’s longtime agent, Tony Godsick. For a three-day, team-format event — Europe against the world — that will be played annually except during Olympic years, Godsick and company hope to attract the four highest-ranked players for each side and have designated captains select two more per team.
In the spirit of old rivals turned good friends, John McEnroe and Bjorn Borg were chosen to be the tournament’s first captains, and they joined Laver at a Manhattan news conference, along with Federer and Rafael Nadal, who have committed to the inaugural playing of what they called tennis’s Ryder Cup.
Introduced with Borg, the ever-dissenting McEnroe called the still-laconic Swede “the only guy I still get along with from when I was playing.”
Laver, conversely, said he got along with everyone.
“My opponents are my best friends,” he said, citing Ken Rosewall, Roy Emerson and Fred Stolle, among the other Australians who helped start what became the gold mine of a tour that Federer has stepped away from until January to rest his surgically repaired knee.
Federer and Nadal have long cast their rivalry and relationship as decidedly amicable, even though, as Federer said: “It hurts when you lose. It hurts a lot.”
Dwelling on the other members of the so-called Big Four, Novak Djokovic and Andy Murray, Federer said: “I get along with Andy and Novak, too, by the way. That’s a good thing. What I like about the tour today is that there’s a lot of camaraderie, a lot of respect for one another.”
Yet the reality of the modern game is the pressure to build the all-consuming individual brand. Compared to Laver’s times — and even McEnroe’s and Borg’s — today’s champions, surrounded by handlers and entourages, operate in a culture of practical segregation.
Federer said he hoped the Laver Cup would provide a better bonding experience than the Tour and the Davis Cup. He also expressed confidence that the top players — drawn by the Laver imprimatur — would make it appointment scheduling despite its coming after the United States Open and an ensuing week of Davis Cup play.
“Tennis is always packed, but at the end of the day it’s a question of what’s important to you — what are the priorities?” Federer said. “I think the players have gotten much, much better of picking their schedules, of understanding what the body can take and not take. Three days is not asking to hang around for three weeks.”
Federer, who last played in the Wimbledon semifinals, continued to say that he intended to compete on Tour for several more years.
Asked if his involvement with the Laver Cup was also the beginning of creating a participatory involvement beyond his playing days, he said: “Not really. I can still put that on the back burner, thankfully, and really just try to focus on getting back right now, getting healthy and remaining being motivated.”
Taking himself out of the United States Open was painful, Federer said, but he added: “I took this decision because I see myself playing for X number of years. Otherwise I would have said: ‘OK, who cares? I’m just going to somehow play in some shape, healthy or unhealthy. It doesn’t matter at this point. I’ll just fizzle out at the end of my career.’”
Federer joked that he had actually ended Laver’s tennis-playing days during a charity event in January 2014 in Melbourne at the stadium named for Laver. Before a near-capacity crowd, they had a brief hitting session before Federer played an exhibition against Jo-Wilfried Tsonga.
“Last time he played tennis, by the way,” Federer said. Turning to Laver, Federer said, “So don’t play ever again.”
To which Laver replied, “I can’t do much with my game.”
Laver suggested that his knees were the problem.
“When it’s all bone on bone,” he said, “there’s not much you can accomplish.”
Federer waved him off. “You did very well,” he said.
How well the world can expect to do against the Tour-dominating European veterans is another question. Most of the best young players are also from Europe.
But Federer, perhaps in tacit acknowledgment of the physical challenges ahead for him and the oft-injured Nadal, said, “You’d be surprised how tough they will be to beat, the world.”
He also said there would be no personnel swaps to balance the scale: The world team could not have Murray, the Scotsman.
“You mean Brexit?” Federer said, referring to Britain’s planned withdrawal from the European Union. “No, I don’t think so.”
The politically astute Laver agreed.
“I think Scotland’s going to object to that,” he said.