
This three-bedroom three-and-a-half-bath house sits on a two-acre waterfront lot on the eastern coast of the Caribbean island of Antigua. Behind the house is a large lawn dotted with trees, and past that, a small beach on Brown’s Bay shared with neighboring homes, reached by taking a few steps and a pathway down from the property.
The house is named Sehil Villa, said Ken Meade, the owner, for a combination of his daughter’s and wife’s names: Selina and Hilda. Built of concrete blocks, with a white exterior, it is surrounded by tropical plants. The living room has a ceiling trussed with pine beams and glass doors with views over Brown’s Bay, Mr. Meade said; a dining area is to the right of the living room. The kitchen has Frigidaire appliances.
Two of the bedrooms are on the main floor and one is downstairs. Each has an en-suite bathroom, water views and access to the yard. There’s also a laundry room downstairs. The house, which has air-conditioning units in each bedroom and ceiling fans throughout, is being sold furnished.
The bedrooms, living room and kitchen all open onto a large terrace running along the back of the house. Parts of it are covered, including an area that accommodates a small dining table, just outside the living room. A saltwater pool is at the center of the terrace, and a gazebo is on the far left.
The interior has 1,935 square feet. Including outdoor living spaces, the total is about 3,300 square feet.
The property neighbors a small hotel with a restaurant called Harmony Hall, which can be reached by a walk on the beach or a very short drive. Nearby shopping for staples like eggs and milk is in Freetown, a village that’s a three-minute drive from the property. The capital of St. John’s, a 40-minute drive, has more substantial shopping as well as restaurants. An uninhabited island is accessible by a boat ride of less than 10 minutes, and one of Antigua’s most celebrated beaches, Half Moon Bay, is a 10-minute drive, Mr. Meade said. The international airport is a 45-minute drive.
The real estate market of Antigua and Barbuda, a constitutional monarchy in the West Indies headed by Queen Elizabeth II and led by a prime minister and a parliament, is still recovering from the global housing crisis, real estate agents said. Prices are significantly lower than the peak, though buyer interest has recently increased. The country, encompassing both Barbuda and Antigua, has a population of around 90,000.
“It is very much a buyer’s market,” said Richard Watson, the owner of the Antigua real estate agency Richard Watson & Company.
In 2008, prices for all homes fell by about 40 percent, said Brad Esty, the owner and broker of Stanley’s Estate Agents, which shares the listing with 
Luxury properties in Antigua tend to range from $1.5 million to $5 million, Mr. Esty said. It is common for properties on the international market to be priced in United States dollars, as this one is. The most expensive properties, in the Jumby Bay resort, top $20 million, he said.
Several recent changes — including the initiation of a citizenship by investment program — have increased demand, agents said.
“With growing interest from North American buyers, increasing airlift and large inflows of investment into new developments, the market is improving,” Walter Zephirin, managing director of Seventh Heaven Properties, a luxury real estate company based in London that specializes in the Caribbean, wrote in an email.
Mr. Esty said prices, inquiries and the number of sales for all types of properties have risen since the same time last year.
Popular areas include Jolly Harbour, English Harbour, Jumby Bay, NonSuch Bay, Sugar Ridge, Tamarind Hills, and the residential area north of St. John’s, agents said. There are also several developments underway.
Mr. Zephirin said that recently the proportion of buyers from the United States had risen, mirroring an increase in tourism from the United States and as a result of improved air connections. JetBlue started flying to Antigua nonstop from New York in 2015.
As a consequence of the weaker pound following the Brexit referendum, Mr. Zephirin said he expected the share of British buyers to keep declining.
Mr. Esty said his buyers come primarily from Europe, North America and Asia. Though foreign buyers have historically used their properties as seasonal homes, an increasing number are relocating to Antigua, he said.
English Harbour is popular with yachters, Mr. Watson said. He added that Antigua’s buyers tend to keep a lower profile than elsewhere in the Caribbean.
“Antigua attracts buyers who seek privacy, seclusion, and who wish to go around without being noticed,” he said.
Foreigners who buy real estate in Antigua must obtain a noncitizens landholding license or be granted an Antiguan passport under the country’s Citizenship by Investment Program, said Septimus A. Rhudd, the founder of Rhudd & Associates, a law firm in St. John’s.
The license typically takes roughly three to six months to obtain, according to Nicolette M. Doherty, a lawyer with a practice in St. John’s. Stamp duty on the license is 5 percent of the government assessed value of the property.
Other closing costs paid by the buyer include a stamp duty of 2.5 percent of the government assessed value, Mr. Rhudd said. There are also land registry filing and processing fees, which he estimated at around $80 in United States currency for a $1 million home. Purchases are typically handled by a lawyer, and the cost of that service is usually 1.5 percent of the purchase price. There is a 15 percent tax on that service.
Mr. Rhudd said buyers should request current, dated copies of the Land Register to verify ownership of the property and confirm that the title is unencumbered.
Mr. Esty said buyers and sellers should do due diligence before selecting a real estate agent, because the industry is unregulated and a license is not required.
Citizenship by Investment Program: 
Antigua and Barbuda tourism: 
English: East Caribbean dollar ($1 = 2.70 East Caribbean dollars)
Property taxes are about $1,100 a year, Mr. Meade, the owner, said. Annual hurricane insurance is around $7,000.
Brad Esty, Stanley’s Estate Agents, (268) 562-7599; 