
transcript
N/A
“I will totally accept the results of this great and historic presidential election — if I win,” he said at a rally in Ohio, a state where he still has a chance for victory.
Later, Mr. Trump was 
Bulgaria, Romania and the Belgian region of Wallonia still 
“The E.U. is becoming more and more ungovernable,” an analyst said.
transcript
tk
Our reporting team is on the front lines as thousands of pesh merga fighters 
And in the Syrian city of Aleppo, few residents used Russia’s brief unilateral cease-fire to escape the fighting. Many said leaving the besieged city 
But he did not scrap the 70-year-old treaty alliance with Washington or the accord that gives the United States access to five military bases.
The measure has been nicknamed Turing’s Law, after 
Investigators believe the case is the largest instance of mishandled classified documents in American history.
More than $50 billion has been pulled out of them this year, the biggest exodus for the industry since the financial crisis.
transcript
N/A
“The people are going to snap,” one Egyptian said.
“At 95, they have brains more like someone who is 50, and at 50, you’re still thinking a lot about sex,” said one researcher.
Switzerland has long been a popular destination with foreign officials who are seeking discreet banking services.
But while their money may be hidden, their arrival in the Swiss city of Geneva isn’t any longer.
This month, when a private jet sometimes used by the son of the authoritarian ruler of Equatorial Guinea arrived, a tweet appeared: “A dictator’s plane landed at #gva airport.”
The United States views the son, Teodoro Nguema Obiang Mangue, as a kleptocrat, saying he once went on a 
François Pilet, a journalist, is part of the team behind the 
Mr. Pilet and his cousin, a former Google software engineer, wrote a computer program to track the comings and goings of the world’s powerful and wealthy to the city.
Here’s how it works: The program regularly scans an antenna that collects transponder codes from the planes entering and exiting Geneva. If there’s a match with a plane linked to an authoritarian government, it triggers a tweet.
“Switzerland is still one of the best places for corrupt dictators to hide their money,” Mr. Pilet said. “Every time we see dictators arrive in Geneva, we should ask ourselves, Why is this guy coming?”