
As we have seen, the struggle to become the head of state of the American republic can be ugly and brutal. One of the upsides of being a constitutional monarchy is that there’s no such struggle. No one elects the British head of state — no one but God. The monarch’s role is to be (or, at least, to appear) immutable. Queen Elizabeth II wields a delicate, unsought sovereignty that can never be eschewed (except by abdication or death) and is rarely exercised. She must evolve with change and sometimes nudge it — but never, ever demand it.
Therein lies the challenge for Peter Morgan, the creator and screenwriter of “
Not so. Fortunately for the rest of this first season, there are two especially juicy, seemingly made-for-TV developments: the love life of the Queen’s sister, Princess Margaret, and the wounded vanity of Winston Churchill. Both reach their climax in the final two episodes.
Being the younger sister of a queen bee is always a buzz kill. Just ask Lee Radziwill or Pippa Middleton. Or Sarah Ferguson, Princess Di’s sister-in law, an explosive redhead caught on camera having her toes sucked by a dubious Texan boyfriend. Younger sisters seem fated to be racier, more transgressive and more criticized. They seethe with suppressed rebellion. Princess Margaret, played with wonderful spoiled charm by Vanessa Kirby, was luscious and highly sexed. (The latter didn’t change when the former faded.) It was inevitable that the boredom of her life as a royal spare tire would steer her into dangerous territory.
And the handsome equerry who caught her eye, Group Captain Peter Townsend, was irresistible. Fifteen years her senior, he was dashing, brave and impeccably trained. The tragedy for P.M., as she was known, was that Townsend (who was rather hotter in real life than the stoic Ben Miles, who plays him) would have been the perfect match for her — except that he was divorced. Because of that, their union would seem to have been prohibited by the arcane diktats of the Royal Marriage Act of 1772.
As the later travails of Diana showed, nothing can be more self-righteous, unfeeling and immovable than an establishment that has closed ranks. Watching “The Crown,” we desperately want Elizabeth to defy the courtiers and the advisers and her own mother, all of whom are determined to override Princess Margaret’s wishes. If this were CBS’s “Madame Secretary” or, God help us, ABC’s cliché-ridden “Designated Survivor” (about a virtuous president facing down Washington cynicism), she 
When Elizabeth, played with exquisite subtlety by Clare Foy, learns that her pledge was based on faulty advice served up by her lugubrious private secretary, Tommy Lascelles, she is full of consternation and hesitant heart-searching. But she yields to precedent — a victory for Lascelles, masterfully rendered by Pip Torrens as an implacable courtier-as-undertaker, from his sepulchral voice to his boot-brush mustache. Duty and sacrifice are such alien concepts in 21st-century public life that the bleak, irrevocable end to the affair sends a powerful message about what it meant to be royal in the 20th.
Kudos to Mr. Morgan for his choice of less obvious material in the beautifully realized ninth episode. In 1954, the two houses of the British Parliament commissioned the celebrated artist Graham Sutherland to paint a portrait of Churchill as an 80th birthday present for the grand old hero of the Second World War. The plan was to unveil it before rolling BBC cameras in a soaring ceremony of thanks at Westminster Hall. But Churchill hated the Sutherland portrait with so much irrational passion that it all turned into a tragicomic fiasco.
It’s a feast of character opportunity for John Lithgow, who plays Churchill at the moment when he’s losing his non-Elgin marbles. In scenes of Churchill’s increasingly uneasy sittings with Sutherland, he’s a Lear-like figure, consumed by gloom, defiance and anger — none of which are improved by his addictions to French cognac and Cuban cigars. Intimations of mortality do nothing to persuade him to resign as prime minister and make way for Anthony Eden, as Churchill’s colleagues and family fervently wish.
Churchill, himself a noted amateur painter, fatally assumed that the portrait would be a collaboration with Sutherland, in which he, Churchill, would somehow be able to cause the image on the canvas to show what he wanted it to show: a vigorous, wise-but-tough executive fit to hold sway in a Cold War summit meeting with a Soviet premier and an American president. (There’s a wonderful account of the Sutherland-Churchill dynamic in Simon Schama’s new book “
It’s a familiar misunderstanding. The living subjects of biographers usually hate even “authorized” books about themselves. However genially a project might begin, they end up feeling betrayed. Churchill had expected a portrait that displayed his triumph as the savior of England, perhaps standing resplendent in his Garter robes, the rocklike bulldog who defeated the “Nazzis,” as he liked to pronounce it. But that is not what Sutherland saw.
Independent, taciturn and lower-middle class, Sutherland painted Churchill as a gloomy, exhausted old man slumped in a chair. It’s a poignant and, in its way, a respectful rendering of a human being’s mortality. But what Churchill wanted was a hero’s immortality. In “The Crown,” Churchill barely manages to hide his fury at the unveiling. He uses irony to dispatch Sutherland. “The portrait,” he growls, “is a remarkable example of
The ever-loyal Clemmie saw to it that the portrait was thrown on a bonfire after her husband died. Perhaps she hoped to forever erase what she saw as Sutherland’s unflattering farewell to all of Churchill’s greatness. But the camera — whether the BBC’s then or Netflix’s now — sees, and does not forget.
At ten episodes per season, one season per Elizabethan decade, we’ve got 50 more episodes to go, if the series runs its full-length. I can’t wait until Mr. Morgan and Mr. Daldry get to the Brexit debacle — and to Her Britannic Majesty’s first meeting with President Trump.