
Perhaps it was the campaign yard signs on the drive through upstate New York to the Glimmerglass Festival in Cooperstown. Or it may have been that the journey began just hours after Donald J. Trump’s fiery acceptance speech at the Republican National Convention.
Whatever the reason, the Glimmerglass production of “
“It’s man devouring man, my dear,” the musical’s murderous, eponymous barber sings, “and who are we to deny it in here?” Even a beloved lullaby suddenly has a tense undercurrent of menace: “Demons are prowling everywhere nowadays” — but “nothing can harm you, not while I’m around.”
Christopher Alden’s staging drives home the piece’s contemporary resonances. This “Sweeney” begins in what seems like a nondescript church basement, perhaps in the 1970s or ’80s: There’s a lot of polyester, and lines of small British flags hang from the rafters.
Characteristically for Mr. Alden, who favors an ominous, surreal mood in his productions, not much explains why the denizens of this modern bake sale have ostracized the man slumped in the corner, or why they decide to don Victorian garb and put on “Sweeney Todd.”
Explanations aren’t always necessary in theater. But unlike more successful Alden shows — his “Don Giovanni” and “Così Fan Tutte” for New York City Opera, a harrowing “Midsummer Night’s Dream” for English National Opera — this one doesn’t gain atmosphere through ambiguity.
Instead, at the performance Friday, conducted by John DeMain, it felt sluggish and bland. With its tone changing on a dime, “Sweeney” is an elaborate sendup of music-hall entertainments that needs rhythmic precision to have its impact; here, ensembles too often feel blurry.
But while the work is set in London, the staging does manage to evoke the small-town, left-behind Britain that has been much in the news lately in the wake of the referendum on leaving the European Union. Played by the bass-baritone Greer Grimsley with a hangdog mustache and a weary slouch, Sweeney is here more a disaffected bloke than a wild-eyed psychopath: a Todd who might have voted for Brexit.
But that melancholy, nuanced portrayal wasn’t aided by a monochromatically furious rendition of his great outpouring when he is unable to kill the vile Judge Turpin at the end of Act I. And while Luretta Bybee had alert comic timing as Mrs. Lovett, her voice was thin in an opera-house context. (It should be said that Glimmerglass’s recent tradition of presenting great works of musical theater with substantial voices and a full orchestra, and without amplification, is a gift.)
Harry Greenleaf was a sweet-voiced Anthony, while Emily Pogorelc had a touch of acid in her soprano as Johanna. Even some piquant smaller performances couldn’t shake the sense that Mr. Alden didn’t quite know what to do with the work. “Sweeney” is usually gruesome, and bucketfuls of artificial gore were thrown around the stage at Glimmerglass on Friday, but this production felt bloodless.
There isn’t a drop of red liquid in the festival’s production of “
Ward’s “Crucible” won the Pulitzer Prize for music when it was new, but while it’s still produced, it’s not really a part of the canon. It certainly doesn’t automatically come up in discussions of great modern operas.
That should change. Staged with stark, slate-gray clarity by Francesca Zambello, Glimmerglass’s artistic and general director, the festival’s production is a revelation. Expansive but never slack, “The Crucible” reminds you of the taut, unrelenting forward motion of “Tosca.”
The piece starts, of course, with sturdy, opera-ready source material in Arthur Miller’s play, but Stambler artfully shaped the script into a libretto that focuses even more than the original on the tragic, twisted love triangle of John Proctor; his wife, Elizabeth; and Abigail Williams, the girl who had an affair with him.
Ward’s score adds simmering tension, with strings that seem to vibrate with worry while insinuating like rumors. There are no self-contained arias; the unforced lyricism of the vocal writing keeps pushing forward. And unlike so much contemporary opera in English, the music doesn’t distort the natural emphases of speech.
Conducted with fierce energy by Nicole Paiement — a gorgeous performance that dipped into lushness without ever losing focus — the cast, much of it drawn from Glimmerglass’s distinguished (and refreshingly diverse) young artist program, was superb. Among many fine singing actors, a few highlights: Brian Mulligan’s passionate, desperate Proctor; Ariana Wehr’s penetrating, scary Abigail; and Helena Brown’s heartfelt Rebecca Nurse. The mezzo-soprano Jamie Barton, whose voice is majestically plush yet somehow always articulate, even conversational, made much of Elizabeth’s hurt and dignity.
If “The Crucible” is a relative rarity on major stages, Pietro Mascagni’s “Iris” (1898) is a genuine obscurity. But Leon Botstein, the president of Bard College and its resident music czar, loves unearthing potential buried treasure. As a kind of preview of the coming Bard Music Festival, 
Puccini’s contemporary Mascagni is best known for the lavish yet direct one-act “Cavalleria Rusticana”; if “Iris,” too, is certainly lavish, it’s also sprawling and overcooked. Not to mention startlingly cruel, even by operatic standards: Iris is a simple girl who is abducted and imprisoned in a brothel, where she commits suicide after being cursed by her father.
Fascinatingly loopy and verging on Symbolism, the piece may reflect the sexual panic of the period just before Freud — though James Darrah’s production has updated it to a more abstractly modern setting, with the brothel all Lucite and neon. But its characters are not detailed enough to make them consistently interesting, and the music billows away in great clouds of perfume. Some operas deserve their obscurity.