
transcript
UPSOUND (English) Barack Obama, US President: “Well I just had the opportunity to have an excellent conversation with president-elect Trump. It was wide-ranging, we talked about some of the organisational issues in setting up the White House. We talked about foreign policy we talked about domestic policy and, as I said last night, my number one priority in the coming two months is to try to facilitate a transition that ensures our president-elect is successful. And, I have been very encouraged by, I think, the interest in the president-elect Trump’s wanting to work with my team around many of the issues that this great country faces and I believe that it is important for all of us, regardless of party and regardless of political preferences, to now come together, work together, to deal with the many challenges we face. And, in the meantime Michelle has had a chance to brief the incoming First Lady and we had an excellent conversation with her as well and we want to make sure they feel welcome as well as they prepare to make this transition. Most of all, I want to emphasise to you Mr President-elect that we now are going to want to do everything we can to help you succeed because if you succeed then the country succeeds.”

Donald Trump (English) Donald Trump, US President Elect: “Well thank you very much President Obama, this was a meeting that was going to last for maybe 10 or 15 minutes and we were just going to get to know each other, we had never met each other. I have great respect. The meeting lasted for almost an hour and a half and it, could have, as far as I’m concerned, it could have gone for a lot longer. We really, we discussed a lot of different situations, some wonderful, and some difficulties. I very much look forward to dealing with the president in the future, including counsel. He’s explained some of the difficulties, some of the high flying assets and some of the really great things that have been achieved. So Mr President it was a great honour being with you and I look forward to being with you many, many more times in the future, thank you.”
“We discussed a lot of different situations, some wonderful and some difficulties,” Mr. Trump said. “I very much look forward to dealing with the president in the future, including counsel.”
Mr. Trump also met with Republican leaders on Capitol Hill.
Here is 
_____
Beijing faces the unsettling reality that 
Officials at several universities were 
Panic spread through some of the country’s 
_____
Mr. Trump, who has called the notion of human-caused global warming a Chinese hoax, could have an especially powerful 
_____
transcript
N/A
Prime Minister Narendra Modi abruptly took them out of circulation this week in an anti-corruption bid, giving people just two weeks to exchange the notes for smaller denominations, capped at 4,000 rupees a day, or about $60.
_____
And, citing political concerns, the Hong Kong Center of the Asia Society, an educational group, 
On this day in 1918, World War I, one of the largest and deadliest wars in history, effectively ended.
Americans mark the occasion with Veterans Day. The U.S. initially celebrated Armistice Day, but in 1954 
How do other countries commemorate their World War One troops?
In Britain and the Commonwealth of Nations, the bright red poppy is an enduring symbol, popularized by 
Canadians celebrate Remembrance Day, which once shared its date with Thanksgiving. To avoid having its veterans overshadowed by food, the government pushed the turkey and stuffing to October.
While most such events are solemn, Anzac Day in Australia, held in April, has a boisterous side. Revelers pack bars for the rare chance to legally play 
Parades and memorials are held in parts of Britain’s former empire, including Kenya, South Africa and areas of India and the Caribbean, even as their World War I contributions are largely overlooked.
But they are getting new attention. The British Library recently posted a trove of letters by Indian soldiers, 
Its author writes that his fellow soldiers would “Like tigers, spring upon the prey/And tear the German goat away.”