
President Obama and his predecessor, George W. Bush, will speak at today’s interfaith 
Dallas’s police chief, 
Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch 
Republicans have asked the Justice Department to open a criminal investigation into 
Bernie Sanders 
Prime Minister David Cameron will hold his last cabinet meeting today. 
She’ll be 
An international court 
The court also rebuked China for building artificial islands and interfering with fishing in the region. Experts in international law said that negotiations could be the most positive outcome of the case, but Beijing has so far refused talks.
Joe Paterno, the former head football coach at Penn State, 
A report commissioned by the university suggested Paterno became aware in 1998.
“
In “
In fiction, Bill Broun’s “
The House is expected to vote soon on a bill that would require most foods containing genetically engineered ingredients to be identified that way. Here are 
That clarity may be helpful, but most 
As airlines offer deals to entice passengers 
But we’ve got six tips for getting 
The 
A documentary takes you 
“
Fans of “deviled” foods will love these steps for 
The 87th Major League Baseball All-Star Game is today in San Diego (7:30 p.m., Eastern, Fox). It’s a fine summer tradition, but here’s one that goes back even further: Eating Cracker Jack at the ballpark.
The gooey treat’s origins go back to 1872, when F. W. Rueckheim, a German immigrant, began selling candy and popcorn in Chicago.
By the 1893 World’s Fair in Chicago, Rueckheim and his brother, Louis, created a confection of molasses, peanuts and popcorn that millions of fairgoers gobbled up.
They perfected their recipe by 1896 when — legend has it — a salesman tasted a sample and shouted, “That’s crackerjack!” Translation: fantastic.
A name and a brand (it’s singular, not plural) were born, and the brothers began packaging and advertising the concoction.
The company first issued coupons in the boxes that could be redeemed for household items at a store in Chicago. It switched to “A Prize in Every Box” in 1912. The prizes
But Cracker Jack’s timelessness is wrapped up in one of the best-known 
Take me out to the ballgame,
Take me out with the crowd.
Buy me some peanuts and Cracker Jack,
I don’t care if I never get back,
Let me root, root, root for the home team,
If they don’t win it’s a shame.
For it’s one, two, three strikes, you’re out,
At the old ballgame.