
AMSTERDAM — “What is left of the dream of European unity?” said Ruth McKenzie, gesturing broadly.
Ms. McKenzie, the British director of the 
“Having this as a focus, exploring European issues and how the continent is changing, seemed like a great idea a year ago,” Ms. McKenzie said. “Now it seems absolutely urgent. I did not know that Brexit was going to be a major issue and that the refugee crisis would be even worse than it was in 2015. And when we had the idea of reuniting the 
The festival opened on June 4 at the Stadsschouwburg with a wordless play by two Estonian directors, based on a work by Peter Handke. When it closes on June 26, it will have offered 45 pieces of theater, music, dance and digital works, 12 of them premieres — and dozens of talks, events, encounters and parties. Organizers expect to have roughly 75,000 visitors this year.
The Holland Festival, like the Edinburgh Festival, was founded in 1947 in the shattered wake of World War II, as a demonstration of a belief in the power of art to heal and restore notions of common humanity. “I find it incredibly moving that in 1947, people who were literally starving — they were eating bulbs because there was nothing else — turned to culture and decided they needed international artists to inspire them,” Ms. McKenzie said.
Unlike the Edinburgh Festival, however, the Holland Festival has not acquired a serious international following, though it is regarded by theater programmers and culture seekers as an important place to discover new, often experimental work. As Ms. McKenzie talked, she often paused to greet theater directors and artists from all over the world, many coming to see a matinee of Joël Pommerat’s epic French Revolution drama, “Ça Ira.”
Perhaps the Holland Festival’s lower profile has to do with the perception of a language barrier, though performances are multilingual and always subtitled in English and Dutch, if in another language. Or perhaps it has to do with the festival’s history of a consistent taste for the experimental and the avant-garde. Ms. McKenzie, who ran the Cultural Olympiad program that accompanied London’s 2012 Olympic Games, is in her second year as festival director and holds fast to that line. (She succeeded 
Amsterdam “is a city with the most fantastic cultural life and several world class institutions — the opera, Dutch National Ballet, the Koncertgebouw orchestra, the Toneelgroep,” Ms. McKenzie said. “In bringing international work here, you have to be adventurous, surprising and different. One of my aims is to find you an experience that you won’t forget.”
You won’t forget Mr. Pommerat’s “Ça ira (1) Fin de Louis,” a sweeping account of the run-up to the French Revolution, which 
Over four and a half hours, we move from the attempt by Louis XIV and his finance minister to raise taxes for the bankrupt state of France; their efforts to get the nobility and clergy to pay taxes alongside the bourgeoisie or third estate; the eventual formation of the representative Assemblée Nationale, the fight to write a declaration of the rights of man versus the urgent needs to address famine, fear and lawlessness.
Mr. Pommerat, whose work should be much better-known to English-speaking audiences, manages to make a thrilling edge-of-the-seat drama out of the political infighting and partisanship that forged a democratic process. It is politics as riveting theater, the best history lesson you’ve ever attended. It is also entirely relevant to the issues now confronting Europe: austerity, nationalism, refugees, the rise of ultraright political parties, and conflicting ideas about the meaning of freedom, equality and fraternity.
On the same weekend, I saw Simon McBurney’s “
Mr. McBurney is alone on stage, alternating between incarnating Loren McIntyre and reverting to himself as he muses on the workings of memory and the nature of time, and deals with his (invisible) 7-year-old daughter who keeps demanding food, drink and stories. It is a compelling, and often moving, performance, and a work that asks you to think about technology, belief systems, social customs, rapacious materialism, the environment and theater itself. You can see Mr. McBurney creating the effects before your eyes; you know a team of technicians is hard at work. Nonetheless, it’s the imagination that does the transporting.
That wasn’t the case with “Privacy,” a coproduction by two Dutch theater companies, Die Warme Winkel and Wunderbaum, which featured two naked actors (Wine Dierickx and Ward Weemhoff) talking about their sex lives, toilet problems and fertility issues. It was clearly an attempt to explore the boundaries of what can be said onstage (the fertility conversation feels most painfully wrong), but it felt more like a workshop than a realized piece.
There is lots more to come over the festival’s remaining days: Simon Stone’s stage adaptation, for the Toneelgroep, of Woody Allen’s “
For those who can’t get to Amsterdam, there is an online premiere, commissioned by the festival. “