
LONDON — The hoped-for grand finale turns out to be an anti-climax: That’s the dispiriting truth about the new West End revival of “The Entertainer,” in which an actor frequently touted as the heir to Laurence Olivier inherits a part immortalized by him 59 years ago.
I’m referring to Kenneth Branagh, who first came to attention in one of Olivier’s signature roles — Henry V, on stage and screen — and went on to play Olivier in the 2011 film “My Week with Marilyn,” for which he was nominated for an Oscar. Now he has cast himself in Olivier’s archetypal role of Archie Rice, the down-on-his-luck music hall performer at the blighted heart of John Osborne’s play. The new production, which runs at the Garrick Theater through Nov. 12, brings his company’s yearlong residency there to an end.
What ought to have been a match made in theatrical heaven seems oddly tentative, as if performer and part have yet to fully align. As directed by Rob Ashford, the American director-choreographer who has been a colleague of the British actor for several years, Mr. Branagh’s Archie looks great (those calf muscles!) and dances well — too well, some might argue, for a person so in the dumps.
But he only fitfully comes by the visceral attack that was Osborne’s stock in trade and that, as Robert Lindsay proved when he played Archie at the Old Vic in 2007, can make both the play and the character live anew.
Osborne’s work doesn’t stint on the dyspeptic, and his bitchiness crackles still. Random insult: “I’ve taken my glasses off. I don’t want to see you suffering.” What’s missing is the feel of an ensemble, starting with its star, committed to driving one’s sense of this play-as-indictment. The period work’s more xenophobic comments tally with post-Brexit Britain, even though they originate in their author’s wish to awaken both Archie and his audience from the deadening anesthesia that Osborne equated with life.
Mr. Ashford’s musical theater background is evidenced in the leggy female dancers who appear now and again as if on loan from the company of “Chicago.” But there’s too little sense of Archie and his act giving way to terminal self-disgust.
Christopher Oram’s evocative design suggests a blurring of reality by positioning a once-grand proscenium arch within the Rice’s family home, and Neil Austin’s lighting casts a shimmer that can turn ominous at will. And yet the production that ought to have ended Mr. Branagh’s occupancy of the Garrick Theater on a high turns out to be as mixed a bag as most of what came before it. “Old Archie … dead behind the eyes,” as the script puts it, needs more life.
If “The Entertainer” this go-round doesn’t cut very deep, Owen McCafferty’s “Unfaithful,” at the pop-up Found111 playhouse on Charing Cross Road through Oct. 8, parades its seriousness before us from the start. (The play bears no relation to the 2002 film of the same name, which starred Diane Lane.)
Scarcely has the cast entered the intimate playing space — Richard Kent’s set consists of little more than a movable double bed — before they appear to be competing to see who can out-glare whom. The winner is that fine actress Niamh Cusack, whose face projects a mask of fury before she speaks a word.
Her character, Joan, has reason to be displeased, confronted by an adulterous husband, Tom (Sean Campion), whom she has come to revile, and finding scant support from a daughter (unseen) who has fled the family nest. Out of a mixture of both rage and need, she hires a younger male prostitute, Peter (Matthew Lewis, known to many as Neville Longbottom in the “Harry Potter” films), a struggling actor admired, we’re informed, for his cheekbones.
The clincher is that Peter’s girlfriend, Tara (Ruta Gedmintas, excellent), is the supermarket employee with whom Tom has had his fling. We see the two meeting in a hotel bar where Tara advances very pointedly on Tom, her talent for sipping a straw making abundantly clear that their encounter isn’t going to end there.
So far so (overly) neat, you might think. “Unfaithful” at times recalls Patrick Marber’s era-defining 1997 play “Closer” — itself a four-person sexual roundelay of a less stern-faced order. Mr. McCafferty is writing about the tightening noose that comes with desire and lust, his quartet connected not just by sex — or the absence thereof — but by a gathering surrender to meaninglessness and rage.
The more ramped-up the emotional stakes, the more the 75-minute play seems to devolve into a series of pronouncements. That is in marked contrast, for instance, to the terrific “Quietly,” an earlier play from Mr. McCafferty that ran in London in 2014 and is now playing at the Irish Repertory Theater Off Broadway.
Some of these proclamations have a boilerplate feel about them: Tom reports that at age 57 he is “afraid of love,” whereas Peter, at 28, finds it “difficult to be real.” The most vivid writing goes to Joan, who precedes her assignation with Peter by disclosing that “after a certain age, you lock your body away, never to be seen by a stranger again.”
Ms. Cusack, in vibrant middle age, allows the line to sting, and the director, Adam Penford, brings a bristling intensity to what in essence remains an ever-shifting series of face-offs. If I was left wanting more, that has to do with the eventual monotony of a play whose structure seems predetermined. “Unfaithful” moves both its betrayers and its betrayed like pieces on a chess board, leaving them only fleetingly to acquire a truly idiosyncratic pulse of their own.
There’s not much pro forma about “They Drink It in the Congo,” the Adam Brace play at the Almeida Theater through Oct. 6. Indeed, so anomalous is it to find a white dramatist writing about events in Africa that a line near the start directly ponders the value in having “white words [come] from black mouths.” In which case, why did Mr. Brace write the play in the first place?
Nor does Michael Longhurst’s uncharacteristically slack production make much of a case for the formlessness of a lengthy evening (nearly three hours) that ricochets between history lesson, consciousness-raising and ad-hoc gig.
The nub of the story involves the frustrated attempts of an Englishwoman, Stef (Fiona Button), to put together a Congo Voice festival in London, utilizing the expatriate African community to further her best intentions — beset by NGO politics, Congolese infighting and an assault on Stef herself. She and her former boyfriend Tony (Richard Goulding, a 2016 Tony nominee for the Almeida’s “King Charles III”) look on as idealism gives way to fractiousness, and worse.
The content is meaty, to be sure, and evinces an interest in the world at large unavailable, say, to the indrawn assemblage in “Unfaithful.”
But whether Mr. Brace is running jokes into the ground — one about karate fails to work once, let alone twice — or stopping the action dead to provide a synoptic history of the Congo, the play itself seems as inchoate as the festival at its core: not for the first time, ambition outstrips achievement.