
A year or two ago, in less unsettled times, it was relatively easy for the wealthy to enhance their social status, and maybe make some money, by collecting art. Auction houses courted sellers with lavish guarantees; buyers, even at the top of the market, could be reasonably certain that quality works by blue-chip names would hold their value.
Things are rather more complicated now. Christie’s reported that sales of art and collectibles 
Comparative figures at Sotheby’s, where last month the Taikang life insurance company in China became 
“It’s all about supply,” said Wendy Goldsmith, an art adviser in London. “If you don’t offer $100 million guarantees, you’re not going to get the best things.” She added that demand had also become highly selective: “Things either stagnate, or they sell like hot cakes. There isn’t any middle ground any more.”
In May 2015, for example, Christie’s guaranteed a low estimate of at least $130 million to the seller of the 1955 Picasso “Les Femmes d’Alger (Version ‘O’)” It 
A year later, with Christie’s less willing to buy market share by guaranteeing headline prices — and risk having to own unsold works — the equivalent auction, titled “Bound to Fail,” 
Lower guarantees aside, other events over the past six months have made art a more thought-provoking investment.
In April, the leak of 11.5 million files from the Panamanian law firm Mossack Fonseca — the so-called Panama Papers — 
Soon after the revelations, the Swiss authorities 
In a separate case last month, Swiss officials, working with the United States authorities, 
The Panama Papers and the investigations that followed threaten the very opacity that for some wealthy individuals has been one of the main attractions of the art market.
The Financial Conduct Authority “rules are now clear about full disclosure of beneficial owners in all transactions,” said Paul Ress, the chief executive of Right Capital, a company in London that provides loans secured against art. (He was referring to the independent British regulatory body.) “We will simply not do business with opaque company or trust structures without full disclosure of the underlying beneficiaries and controlling parties.”
Other issues have added to the general sense of uncertainty: the Brexit vote in Britain, the American presidential election, the terror attacks in Europe and a new law in Germany that will restrict the export outside the European Union of certain artworks.
To be sure, new players continue to enter the market, and there is still plenty of money available for big-name trophies. In June in London, at Christie’s 
Adding to the pressure on the status quo, collectors’ tastes appear to be shifting away from high-concept “wall power” paintings that appear to be about nothing much more than painting.
In May in New York, two large-scale trademark word paintings by the auction favorite Christopher Wool sold near the low end of their estimates, with the 1990 “Chameleon” selling for $13.9 million at Sotheby’s and the 1992 “And If You” for $13.6 million at Christie’s. Both were far below the $29.9 million that a similar work, the 1990 “Riot,” brought at Sotheby’s in May 2015.
Even the acclaimed abstracts of Gerhard Richter can now struggle to attract buyers. A 1994 “Abstraktes Bild” estimated at $19 million at Christie’s in London in June 
America’s hottest artist right now is arguably Njideka Akunyili Crosby, 33, a Nigerian-born figurative painter in Los Angeles whose meticulous portraits currently are not available to private collectors.
Her latest work, “Super Blue Omo,” was snapped up at the 
Lisa Schiff, an art adviser in New York, and others pointed out that the softening of demand for what has been regarded as blue-chip art might be about more than overambitious estimates or shifting fashions.
“Some of my clients are fatigued,” Ms. Schiff said. “Buying art for a private museum or foundation is no longer the most exciting thing.”
She said that people were increasingly valuing the experience of art over acquisition. That has prompted her and the curator Lauri Firstenberg to start an advisory company called there-there (the quirky title is inspired by a Gertrude Stein line) that aims to “develop programming and produce projects in collaboration with artists, foundations, corporations and institutions.”
Art as an experience, rather than an investment, is gaining traction elsewhere in the market. Hauser & Wirth’s gallery, bar, restaurant and garden complex in rural Somerset has attracted around 273,000 visitors since it opened in July 2014, almost double the 149,000 the company’s London gallery has attracted over the same period.
And Joseph Nahmad, the younger brother of the London dealer Helly Nahmad, opened his new Nahmad Projects space in Cork Street in June not with an exhibition of collector-friendly paintings, but with a series of performances by 30 artists.
Billionaire megacollectors such as Stephen S. Cohen, 
“Consumers worldwide are seeking out experiences,” said Sarah Quinlan, a senior vice president at Mastercard who analyzes luxury spending. “Even the 1 percent is changing,” she added. “It’s not displaying its wealth so obviously.”
This behavioral shift, which Ms. Quinlan compared to patterns of consumer spending after the 1929 Wall Street crash, could potentially be a far more serious threat to the cult of art as an investment than the mere vagaries of collecting taste or the global economy.
What happens if it’s no longer cool to own expensive art?