
Depressed fuel prices, the growth of low-cost carriers and tumultuous world events have combined to do one nice thing for travelers: lower airfares.
According to the United States Department of Transportation’s 
“Generally speaking, airfares are at their lowest levels in a long time. It starts with cheap fuel,” said Seth Kaplan, managing partner at Airline Weekly. “Consumers are getting a good deal again after a few years of rising fuel prices.”
Special events like holidays and seasonal weather patterns influence airfares, which commonly fluctuate. But two international regions, the Caribbean and Europe, offer particularly good opportunities to save on transportation this fall and winter. The airfare prediction app 
Fliers to the Caribbean are benefiting from a wave of low-cost carriers adding tropical routes and possible attrition because of Zika fears on the part of some travelers.
From the Northeast, 
In the second quarter of 2017, when its $295 million renovation of an international terminal at the Fort Lauderdale airport is scheduled to be completed, the airline will be poised to offer more flights in the region. In August, it began scheduling daily flights from Fort Lauderdale to Nassau in the Bahamas, with fares recently posted as low as $58 one way. From Newark, beginning Dec. 17, it will begin seasonal service to Puerto Rico, from $128 one way.
Another new entrant, 
Because it is a European carrier, Norwegian Air is limited to flying between the United States and European territories, such as the French islands of Guadeloupe and Martinique, but even its small scale of service may have an impact on larger carriers.
“It all matters, especially when you’re dealing with destinations that are somewhat substitutable,” said Mr. Kaplan, of Airline Weekly. “Some people might want badly to go to a particular place, but a lot of people just want a beach. So if one beach is a better deal than another, everything competes.”
Several airlines plan to start flights to Cuba in the next few months, a rush to the island that analysts expect will keep prices relatively low until demand and the supply of seats balances out. 
The best deals involve bigger markets served by competing airlines. “We’re seeing a lot of competitive pressures keeping airfares down in any market served by more than one airline,” said Patrick Surry, the chief data scientist at 
From terrorist violence to the Brexit vote, Europe has weathered a tough year, and many North American travelers stayed closer to home. Airlines, stuck with empty seats, are trying to reduce capacity by canceling routes. “But that takes time, and for consumers that means good deals in the meantime,” Mr. Kaplan said.
In what was most likely a response to terrorist events, the Europe sales began last summer, which is typically high season.
“Last summer we saw much lower fares than we’ve seen previously,” said George Hobica, founder of 
The rise of low-cost carriers flying between the United States and Europe has also affected fares. In addition to its Caribbean flights, Norwegian Air offers rock-bottom trans-Atlantic routes. For example, one-way flights from New York to Copenhagen recently started at $172.70, to London at $244.90, to Paris at $220.60 and Stockholm at $153.
Keep in mind that the cheapest fares with this low-cost carrier, as with many others, means lots of 
Another low-cost newcomer, the Iceland-based 
For no additional charge, the airline offers the 
When should you book these deals? Airfares are always in flux, and certainly the December holiday period is highest. Hopper recommends December bookings be made before the end of October, noting that fares rise about $1.50 a day after Halloween until 10 days before departure, when they rise about $6 a day. But if you’re planning three months out, you might wait.
“Generally, patience pays,” Mr. Kaplan said. “On average you get the best deals between a month and two months before you fly.”