
They feel invested in this American presidential race, like no election before, and fret about its outcome — even if, for the most part, they don’t have a vote.
A current of helpless anxiety runs through hundreds of emails and Facebook posts from New York Times readers around the world since I arrived here in July to help cover 
“In one of the most mature democracies in the world, how does a campaign get so wild?” asked Manu Duggar, a Nepali living in Canada. “I’m afraid,” said Bernt Klein, a computer scientist in Germany.
Overwhelmingly, international readers say they are transfixed by the unorthodox candidacy of Donald J. Trump, the Republican candidate, and confounded by the strong emotions that Hillary Clinton evokes among many Americans, including Democrats.
Many see Mr. Trump’s campaign as an extension of the political tides that have buffeted their own countries. The French see shades of the hard-right nationalist Marine Le Pen. Britons see parallels with supporters of 
“What we Europeans, especially Italians, cannot understand is how the party of Lincoln and Eisenhower has declined so deep and fast toward Trump,” said David Cerri, an Italian lawyer. Sure, he conceded, Italians elected Silvio Berlusconi. “But frankly he’s not been a danger for democracy so conspicuous as Donald.”
America’s neighbors are just as baffled. Sharon Campbell, a self-described “nervous Canadian,” fears a victory for Mr. Trump on Nov. 8 would portend serious disruption between the two countries. “Treaties torn up, alliances ended, currency exchange proscribed, trade agreements abrogated and movement of people and goods between the borders of Canada and the U.S. at risk. That’s for starters. Wow!” she wrote.
American readers, intrigued to know 
Come to Texas, wrote Diann Nicols, “to see what America looked like in the 1950s when the good ole boys talked politics after dinner and the womenfolk retired to the parlor to talk about recipes and household tips.”
A curveball election has thrown up curveball queries. For some, the extreme nature of the campaign rhetoric — which is already thick with insults and grumbles about possible vote rigging — raises questions about American law, during the election and beyond.
Will foreign election observers be deployed to monitor the vote, much as they do in elections in other countries?
Given the president’s power to launch a nuclear strike, is there a legal entity that monitors his or her mental capacity?
“Can anyone restrain a president who is obviously not fit?” asked Ken Martin, a retired government official from New Zealand.
And what would happen if Mrs. Clinton won the election but was assassinated before she was sworn in?
That last question, submitted by Hank Gehman, seems extreme. But it stemmed from the moment in August when Mr. Trump suggested that gun rights advocates might 
(Mr. Trump later said his comment had been made in jest.)
For answers I turned to James A. Thurber, a professor of political science at American University in Washington, who has just returned from a trip to Russia, Turkey and several other European countries where he said he had fielded similar questions from concerned foreign observers.
International observers will be present in November, just as they have been in past American elections, Dr. Thurber said. Their goal is to learn, not to lecture. “They don’t come to look for fraud, but to take lessons from how we administer the election,” he said.
The job of monitoring the vote falls largely to Democrat and Republican election monitors who will be present at polling places across the country.
American law has no specific provisions for the death of a president-elect, Dr. Thurber said. The most likely outcome would be for the winning party to choose its vice-presidential running mate to step up. “The people would have spoken for the ticket,” he said.
Similarly, there is no legal authority for oversight of the president’s mental capacity — determining fitness to hold office is a major purpose of the campaign. But it is a timely query.
Mrs. Clinton, 68, and Mr. Trump, 70, have produced doctor’s letters to attest their good health, but have provided less information about their health than any previous candidate in recent decades. On Sunday, Mrs. 
The 
Once in office, a president can be replaced only if he or she is convicted by the Senate, after articles of impeachment are issued by the House of Representatives, or is incapacitated. Short of that, Dr. Thurber added, the phalanx of military and civilian advisers around the president might informally restrain him from making certain rash decisions. At the end of Ronald Reagan’s administration, Dr. Thurber said, “lots of people around him guided him and persuaded him.”
“It would be a similar situation,” he added, should Mr. Trump or Mrs. Clinton demonstrate they lack the fitness to make decisions.
The biggest mystery for many abroad, though, relates to Mrs. Clinton, and the intense emotions she elicits among so many Americans. “The bit I don’t get is the antipathy towards Hillary,” wrote Stephen Woodmansee, an Australian living in Malaysia. “Why is she so widely distrusted (hated even)? Is it pure misogyny or am I missing something?”
“From our perspective she’s an imperfect politician (aren’t they all?) but has a very good record of getting things done,” wrote Kim Glasgow.
I can see where they are coming from: During the Labor Day holiday this month, I visited my relatives in New Jersey, many of whom are staunch Republicans. At the dinner table, just the mention of Mrs. Clinton provoked a barrage of sharp criticism that echoed attack lines often heard on Fox News about her being a criminal.
But Mrs. Clinton is also a divisive figure among Democrats — her 