
CLEVELAND — It is supposed to be a coronation, a showy political pageant where one of America’s two great parties triumphantly crowns its presidential contender. But this week’s Republican convention has had the charged air of a Roman colosseum, a fraught and strange affair driven by gladiatorial cries, bear-pit politics and calls for retribution against enemies near and far.
A former soldier issued a bellicose call for more airstrikes in the Middle East. Syrian refugees were painted as Islamic State infiltrators. A handful of African-American speakers disparaged black-rights groups. Numerous speeches assailed the presumptive Democratic nominee, Hillary Clinton, in unforgiving terms.
“Lock her up!” chanted the crowd during several unbridled speeches that painted Mrs. Clinton as a liar, a criminal, a national security risk and — somehow — a sympathizer of Lucifer. At times it felt as if the delegates, overwhelmingly white and older, were waiting for a robed figure to emerge with his thumb pointed up or down.
“You know who you are,” said Rudolph W. Giuliani, a former mayor of New York, in a fear-flecked denunciation of unspecified Islamic terrorists that roused the crowd to its feet. “And we’re coming to get you!”
Looming in the background was Donald J. Trump, the polarizing billionaire who has swept aside the Republican Party’s once-powerful Washington leadership, forged a powerful new political brand around anger and denunciation, and has now become the party’s nominee for the highest office of the land — and the most powerful job in the world.
Mr. Trump is scheduled to formally accept his nomination Thursday night, a potentially transformative moment in American politics. The storied party of Abraham Lincoln, founded on a mandate of containing the spread of slavery, is now headed by a candidate who has divided the country, and the Republicans, like none other in decades.
On the surface, Republicans seem to be uniting through the cherished, quirky rituals of the four-day conference. In the bustling corridors of the Quicken Loans Arena, the cavernous hall in the lakeside city of Cleveland where it is taking place, delegates bustle about with good-natured cheer, many sporting outlandish hats shaped like Christmas trees or elephants. A woman from Tennessee wore a raccoon skin on her head.
“We’re the Cheeseheads,” said Barbara Finger, a retiree from Wisconsin who wore a hat shaped like a wedge of cheese, the state’s signature product.
Behind the facade of unity, though, frayed edges have become painfully exposed. Mr. Trump’s steamroller success has caused many party grandees, including the two former Presidents Bush, to stay away. A rowdy, last-ditch effort by insurgent “Stop Trump” delegates failed, but set a sour tone. A day later, delegates on the other side of the divide greeted Sen. Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, a powerful old-style party boss (and the majority leader) with a round of boos.
Caught in the middle is Rep. Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, the speaker of the House and chairman of this conclave, who delivered an awkward speech that was jammed between saccharine testimonies from former soap actors, minor sports figures and a woman who runs Mr. Trump’s winery.
What all agree on, though, is that Mr. Trump’s stunning victory is rooted in his ability to tap directly into American discontent. Jason R. Anavitarte, a delegate from Georgia who campaigned for one of his vanquished rivals, Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida, said Mr. Trump had “turned anger and frustration into a product” that would be salable this fall.
“There’s many people who haven’t bounced back from the crash in 2008,” he said of America’s real estate and economic crisis. “They feel disconnected from mainstream politics. He lets all of that anger that people have built up just come out of his mouth”.
Laurel Fee, who is 57, from Nevada, and an activist in the conservative Tea Party movement that previously tore Republicans apart, affirmed that idea. “He’s the first one to say the stuff the rest of us talk about around the water cooler,” Ms. Fee said.
Some of Mr. Trump’s critics, alarmed by his mix of brash tactics, bullying speeches and casual relationship with the truth, have found a measure of cold comfort of late across the Atlantic in Britain’s vote to exit the European Union.
transcript
[02:09 - 02:29]
The choice we make in 1968 will determine not only the future of America but the future of peace and freedom in the world for the last third of the Twentieth Century.

ALEX SOT:
The conditions in the country are really different than they were in 1968, but where the parallels arise are you have this presidential candidate drumming home these themes about social disorder, of the United States as a country under attack, at home and abroad.

[02:30 - 03:04]
As we look at America, we see cities enveloped in smoke and flame. We hear sirens in the night. 

9:25 David Clarke Jr.  I want to talk with you about something important, indeed, a concept that five law enforcement officers were murdered and nine more were wounded for earlier this month in Dallas, and for which three more were murdered yesterday in Baton Rouge:  that is the importance of Making America Safe Again

We see Americans dying on distant battlefields abroad. We see Americans hating each other; fighting each other; killing each other at home. 

9:16PM: MCCAUL: We need to end sanctuary cities...keep dangerous people out of our country...and SECURE our borders.

And as we see and hear these things, millions of Americans cry out in anguish. Did we come all this way for this?

ALEX SOT:
Part of the reason this is at the forefronts of people’s minds is just what’s been in the news lately.  That you have seen the killings of police officers in Dallas and Baton Rouge, that you’ve seen violence in a number of cities.  What Trump identified at the very beginning of this campaign was this hunger within the Republican base for almost a strongman figure.

[05:01 - 05:12]
America is in trouble today not because her people have failed but because her leaders have failed. And what America needs are leaders to match the greatness of her people.

9:17PM MCCAUL: This did not happen by accident, it happened by design.
It is the work of Barack Obama... and the architect of his failed foreign policy, Hillary Clinton.

9:48 TOM COTTON: Our warriors and their families don’t ask for much. But there are a few things we’d like. A commander-in-chief who speaks of winning wars and not merely ending wars, calls the enemy by its name, and draws red lines carefully, but enforces them ruthlessly.


[08:49 -  09:09]
For five years hardly a day has gone by when we haven’t read or heard a report of the American flag being spit on; an embassy being stoned; a library being burned; or an ambassador being insulted some place in the world. And each incident reduced respect for the United States until the ultimate insult inevitably occurred.

9:48 TOM COTTON: Our warriors and their families don’t ask for much. But there are a few things we’d like. A commander-in-chief who speaks of winning wars and not merely ending wars, calls the enemy by its name, and draws red lines carefully, but enforces them ruthlessly.

ALEX SOT:
Trump has said in a recent interview that he sees nixon as someone who understood some fundamental things about the country.  That people were looking for order in the midst of disorder. 

10:10 GUILIANI: In the last seven months, there have been five major Islamic extremist terrorists attacks on us and our allies.  We must not be afraid to define our enemy; It is Islamic extremist terrorism.

[13:25 - 14:00]
We shall re-establish freedom from fear in America so that America can take the lead in re-establishing freedom from fear in the world. And to those who say that law and order is the code word for racism, there and here is a reply: Our goal is justice for every American.

9:26pm David Clarke Jr. I see this every day, at street level where many Americans increasingly have an uneasiness about the ability of their families to live safely in these troubling  times. This transcends race, religion, ethnicity, gender, age, and  lifestyle.


[09:35 - 09:58]
America is a great nation. And it is time we started to act like a great nation around the world. 

MICHAEL FLYNN
And, with Donald Trump in the White House, WE...WILL...MAKE...AMERICA... GREAT... AGAIN!
Similar factors are driving inward-facing politics in both countries, experts say: anger among the losers from globalization, frustration with traditional elites, anxiety over immigration and bubbling xenophobia. Among the foreign guests in Cleveland this week is Nigel Farage, the British anti-immigration politician who was a driving force behind “Brexit,” and Geert Wilders, a right-wing Dutch member of Parliament best known for his trenchant criticism of Islam.
“It’s a mix of economics and identity,” said Robin Niblett, the director of Chatham House, a research organization in London. In both countries, voters in struggling areas were reacting to a perceived slide in national sovereignty, he said, adding: “People feel they have lost control.”
Just outside the Cleveland convention hall, Christopher Cox, founder of Bikers for Trump, posed for photographs with delegates as a John Denver song blared in the background. Political correctness had “tongue-tied America,” Mr. Cox declared. “Donald Trump made it easier for patriots to stand up and speak their minds without fear of being called a racist.
“Bikers are concerned with radical Islam, who’s going to take the fight to ISIS,” he added, referring to the Islamic State group. “We want to see a wall built, to see Syrian refugees vetted. That’s not racism, that’s patriotism.”
The bikers were among dozens of niche groups that flooded into Cleveland this week: anarchists, evangelical Christians, civil-rights advocates, counterprotesters, fresh-faced young capitalists and socialists engaged in intense argument. “Build a wall against Trump” read one protester’s sign, riffing on Mr. Trump’s signature proposal for a wall along the Mexican border; others openly carried guns, as Ohio state law permits. A preacher screamed himself hoarse with warnings of damnation; another man brought his pet iguana.
They assembled in Cleveland’s Public Square, under a Civil War monument depicting Abraham Lincoln freeing a slave. The arguments swang between serious and ridiculous — a prominent figure, a self-styled provocateur who wore a rubber boot on his head, gave his name as Vermin Supreme — and mostly they were peaceful.
But the shouting turned to confrontation between rival groups at one point on Tuesday, drawing hundreds of police officers on foot, on horseback and on bicycles.
At first the police clustered in a serried square; then they chased the anarchists on bikes down an empty street. The chase ended outside a shuttered cigar store. But there were more photographers than protesters, and the standoff was over after a few scuffles.
Vermin Supreme, dressed in shorts, harangued the police through a bullhorn. “Come on people,” he said to the unspeaking officers. “Let’s have a bit of niceness.”