
FOR those in or near retirement, the standard investing advice has long been to dump stocks gradually and load up on bonds as you get older. The idea is to reduce the risk that a big stock market decline will wipe out much of your portfolio just when you need the money most.
But in an era of ultralow bond yields and longer retirements, does the conventional wisdom need to be seriously challenged? Perhaps there’s a greater risk, after all, that you will outlive your savings and that even a low inflation rate will erode the value of your investments over time if they are not growing with the economy.
Chris Brightman, chief investment officer at Research Affiliates, wrote in a recent report: “These negative real rates of interest paid by an increasing proportion of the developed world’s governments on their debt will not preserve our purchasing power over the long run, let alone generate the growth in real wealth necessary to achieve our investment objectives.”
Volatility also spooks retirement investors into doing the wrong thing at the wrong time. According to new research by Fidelity Investments, “long-term investors tended to lower their stock investments during major short-term stock market declines, rather than adhering to an approach that is based on a well-thought-out, long-term investment plan.”
Most investors don’t make multiple-decade portfolio projections, of course, but consider that many people are going to spend 30 years or more in retirement. A long-term perspective is essential.
Sarah Newcomb, a behavioral economist for Morningstar, wanted to know for herself how much the cost of living was likely to increase over time — and whether her portfolio could keep up with inflation.
“I learned that with an average 3 percent inflation rate, prices double every 24 years,” said Ms. Newcomb, who is also author of “Loaded: Money, Psychology and How to Get Ahead Without Leaving Your Values Behind” (Wiley, 2016).
“That means that by the time I retire, my life will cost twice as much as it does now, and if I make it to my late 80s, the same lifestyle will cost four times as much then as it does today,” Ms. Newcomb added. “If I am not actively saving and aggressively investing, the real risk is the risk of not retiring at all.”
It’s only natural to err on the side of caution when investing for retirement. After all, remembering the huge sell-off in 2008 and facing the recent volatility from the so-called Brexit vote makes millions of investors anxious. Yet they can easily take too little risk and become myopic on the erosion from inflation. Sitting on cash or holding long-term bonds isn’t the answer to this perennial problem.
“An adviser recently told me about a client who was left with tens of millions of dollars after the death of her husband,” Ms. Newcomb said. “This woman is terrified of mishandling his money, and so she refuses to invest. The decision to keep money ‘safe’ in cash and cash equivalents guarantees a financial loss in the form of inflation.”
In addition to the overall rise in the cost of living, older Americans face the likelihood that they will ultimately have to pay for some form of long-term care. Seventy percent of Americans over age 65 will need nursing, custodial or in-home care services, according to the Department of Health and Human Services.
Like many health care expenses, long-term care costs are rising faster than the consumer inflation rate. Expenses for a private nursing home room, for example, rose at a 3.5 percent rate from 2011 through 2015, according to Genworth, an insurance company, compared to a current inflation rate of little more than 1 percent. The median cost of a private room is now nearly $100,000 a year.
“I’m very concerned about long-term care risk,” says Anna Rappaport, an actuarial consultant who focuses on retirement issues. “A lot of people aren’t focused on the long term.”
To build a portfolio that will grow well ahead of the pace of inflation over the long-term means relying more on stocks that will combine growth and dividends.
But even as you take more risk, you have to take a hard look at your psychology. Assess how much of a decline in the value of your portfolio you are willing to accept.
“If your portfolio is down 20 percent to 30 percent, would it impact your lifestyle or could you work through it?” asks Judith B. Ward, a senior certified financial planner for T. Rowe Price, the mutual fund firm.
For most people, though, taking on more long-term risk doesn’t mean chasing short-term gains and trading frequently.
Ms. Newcomb said she had met a man on a plane who owned two small businesses but who was now trading in commodities, a highly risky endeavor that he failed to master. He asked for advice.
“Chasing short-term returns is rarely a sound strategy for building long-term income,” Ms. Newcomb said she told the man. “Unless he could predict tomorrow’s headlines, he needed to put more of his money to work in less speculative investments.”
There are two routes to finding a workable marriage between portfolio risk and needed returns.
One simple way is to run an online program to see whether your current portfolio is likely to provide enough money over time given a certain rate of return, mix of investments and your age.
A “Monte Carlo analysis,” one of those programs, will show how long your portfolio can be expected to last. It’s not a precise science, of course, since most free calculators don’t allow you to include items like emergencies, long-term care or other sudden health expenses. Uncertainty is inherent in the process.
Nevertheless, you can use calculators offered by 
If you’re not up to the do-it-yourself journey, consider consulting a fee-only 
Ask these professionals to run a portfolio review. They should spend time vetting your concerns, goals, legacy plans and fears. At the very least, they should be able to tailor a portfolio that conforms to your goals and concerns.
Professional advisers should ask detailed questions about risk tolerance and objectives. For example: Are you prepared for long-term and out-of-pocket health care expenses? Do you plan any major lifestyle changes that will alter your spending plan? Can you cut expenses if you need to without sacrificing quality of life?
Also ask advisers to identify the various types of investment risks. You can overconcentrate, for example, in one type of asset, like American stocks or bonds. That means you may be underdiversified in global companies.
Or you could be overexposed in real estate or your employer’s stock. Spreading your money between a diversified portfolio, primarily in stocks but also including bonds, real estate and other investments, is usually the most prudent course.
In any enlightened approach, you are likely to face the decision of refocusing your portfolio to meet your needs down the road. In doing so, remember that the real risk is not doing enough to make sure your money lasts as long as you do.