
To secure the right to vote, Americans have been beaten, jailed and tortured. Some even died. Yet in the 2012 presidential election, less than 54 percent of the eligible population 
Voter turnout has been a big problem for decades. Since 1980, it has 
With both candidates running with high disapproval ratings, the 2016 presidential election could set a record low for voters.
I’m part of the problem: I’ve failed to vote in more than one election. One year, I was traveling and forgot to fill out an absentee ballot. Another time, I got stuck in traffic, arrived to a big crowd, then turned around so I wouldn’t miss dinner.
I’m not like my wife, who once waited in a long line at a community center to vote, only to find out that she was at the wrong location — so she drove four miles to the right booth and waited again.
As a citizen I feel guilty about my behavior. As an organizational psychologist, I’m puzzled by it. There are many voters with strong opinions and maybe even preferred candidates but who, like me, simply don’t show up to the polls regularly. Can people like me be nudged to the voting booth? Or do we need a push?
Voting seems to be a case of what social scientists call 
The first problem is that for many people, voting has little to do with their identities. Do I see myself as an American? Absolutely. Do I think we live in a great country? Of course. I’ve shown my national pride in various ways. But it never occurred to me that voting could be one.
If we want people to vote, we need to make it a larger part of their self-image. In a pair of experiments, psychologists 
The reason is that nouns are 
Even as a newly minted voter, I run into a second barrier: the belief that my vote doesn’t make a difference. The way campaigns normally attack this problem is to sound the alarm about close elections like Bush versus Gore in 2000 or the narrow victory for the Leave side in Brexit.
Sadly, warnings about low voter turnout don’t work. Research 
At least two dozen countries have implemented mandatory voting with fines or community service for those who fail to comply — with major 
It wasn’t just turnout that changed. Results did, as well. When Anthony Fowler, a public policy professor at the University of Chicago, examined the Australian results, required turnout had a large effect on the outcome — a gain of between 7 and 10 percent for the Labor Party.
“Democracies with voluntary voting do not represent the preferences of all citizens,” he 
Punishing nonvoters probably won’t fly in the United States, but there’s another way to make us pay for not voting: shame. Political scientists have 
Then we run into a third problem. Even if we identify as voters and want our neighbors to like us, we’re too busy. To get me to vote, you need to clear the obstacles out of my way. Making calls to encourage people to vote has been shown to have 
Unfortunately, the failure to vote falls along class lines. In 
What if we made it easier for them?
Countries like Estonia and Switzerland have opened up 
But in the spirit of patriotism, I think we should go further. Let’s make Election Day a federal holiday (or at least a company holiday). In the spirit of nouns over verbs, call it Voter Day.
If I had the day off, and knew everyone else was voting, I wouldn’t miss it. It would become a routine part of my responsibility as a citizen — like paying taxes, only less soul crushing. We can take a cue from a recent study on enticing people to the gym. Many people intend to exercise but just don’t enjoy it. In an 
But there was a catch: The iPods were locked at the gym, so the subjects had to show up for a workout to enjoy listening to “Harry Potter” or “The Hunger Games.” Over seven weeks, students, faculty and staff averaged 27 percent more visits to the gym than a control group.
We can do something similar for voting. Set up a county fair at the polls. Offer dancing and games, and people might be excited to roll in and enjoy the festivities. 
More than half a century ago, the philosopher Isaiah Berlin 