
It’s one world, we’re one community, and so we must all read the same books. Otherwise how could we talk about them to one another? Thus the logic of globalization: ever larger numbers of people worldwide reading the very best (or best-promoted?) authors. It’s good news for those authors and their publishers, not so encouraging for the increasing number of people who would like to make a living from writing. And of course it raises the intriguing question: Even when well translated, can we really understand what other cultures are talking about? Will a housewife in Tibet (assuming there are “housewives” in Tibet) make sense of Jonathan Franzen’s St. Paul, Minn.? Can other people truly get the hang of Bulgarian etiquette or courtship in Laos or street life in the Philippines? Are we interested? Does it make sense to be interested? In short, do all good books travel?
Certainly the authors travel. It isn’t enough to publish; to become part of the global conversation, you have to promote yourself worldwide. Even if you’re not enthusiastic yourself, your publishers will be pushing you to get on the move; after all, they earn a lot more from every sale than you do, especially if you still have an advance to earn out. And the places you travel to are likely to be literary festivals, the growth of which is more or less contemporary with the globalization process. Likewise the international literary prizes. They are part of the felt need to establish a worldwide conversation about books. I’m of two minds about their worth — whether for me as a writer, or in general as a way of promoting good writing. All the same, this summer I’m going to two: in Edinburgh and Melbourne. Why? Because festivals can be fun, especially if you travel in company. Because I’m not immune to the megalomania that drives so many authors and artists. And because there is no better place to assess the aspirations, fragility, heroism and hypocrisy of the book world than at a major literary festival.
The International (of course) Edinburgh Book Festival is one of the biggest. Staged during the last two weeks of August, it plays host to more than 800 writers from more than 55 countries at more than 700 events held in smart white pavilions in a genteel garden square in Georgian Edinburgh. About 220,000 visitors rise to the bait. Tickets average around £10 (about $13), and just £5 for the children’s events. You can’t say that’s not reasonable. However, since the book festival runs simultaneously with the more general Edinburgh International Festival (“Welcome, World” the website announces), finding a hotel room in town is tough and paying for it tougher still. One of the main raisons d’être of any festival is to support local business; writers as well as readers become part of that project when they agree to go to a certain place to pursue their interests. The more of us who attend, the more hotel and restaurant prices rise. So if an author complains that he gets only £200 (about $262) for his performance (Edinburgh pays the same to all writers), the festival organizers can point out that at least he’s getting a night in an Edinburgh hotel when the city is leaping, though actually it is the publisher, not the festival, who will pay for that.
We’re well meaning and we’re winners. That’s the message that comes across loud and clear from the festival catalog, and indeed from all festival catalogs. The Edinburgh one is 97 pages long with about 60 words per event, a short book in itself. The mix and the rhetoric are fascinating and tell us all we need to know about the role literature is being assigned in the politics of globalization. “Imagine Better,” this year’s edition is titled, which means (as the director, Nick Barley, explains) asking ourselves how we can “share our ideas and envisage a better world.” Events on refugees, human trafficking, genocide and persecution sit side by side with celebrations of “Finnegans Wake” and Shakespeare, Ezra Pound and Samuel Beckett. Discussions of feminism and socialism, Brexit and Europe rub shoulders with readings from crime novels, fantasy novels, graphic novels and poetry. The “program partners” of the festival include cultural organizations from a good 20 countries, all ­represented by an author or two: the Icelandic poet and novelist Sjon, the Belgian prize winner Peter Terrin, the New Zealand-born Kirsty Gunn and so on. From Mexico, “Diego Enrique Osorno tells stories of teenage prostitution, Sergio González Rodríguez describes systematic violence against women, and Emiliano Ruiz Parra recounts a good man’s ­assassination.”
And of course, perhaps more understandably, there is Scotland: discussions about Scotland’s past, present and future; readings from Scottish novelists and Scottish poets; presentations by Scottish sportsmen and Scottish entertainers. That seems altogether right. We’re in Scotland, we want to hear the Scots. The curious thing is the amount of crossover between the various themes and genres. One main event is a theater adaptation of Alice Munro’s stories about her Scottish ancestors migrating to Canada. A Scottish historian discusses his country’s role in the slave trade. This is not intimate Scotland, at home with itself, but Scotland as part of world drama. Novels are frequently described as discussing wars, crises and dramatic political events all over the globe, while nonfiction works are presented as narratives: The “award-­winning New York Times journalist Anjan Sundaram has an astonishing story to tell. ‘Bad News’ is his eyewitness account of events in Rwanda today.”
All in all, it’s hard not to feel that fiction and poetry are allowed to exist only insofar as they are willing to be subsumed into a liberal, international, “forward-­looking” agenda. They are telling stories as part of a project to imagine a better world, championing mental health issues, transgender issues, human rights issues. With great frequency they set their stories in times and places that have become clichés of the collective imagination, moments of particular turmoil when particular well-­defined problems were on the agenda: Tudor England, 19th-­century Britain, terrorism in 1970s Rome, Nazi Germany, Paris in 1968, the various killing fields of the 20th century and many more. One nonfiction writer joins a novelist to explore “How Writers Live Through War.” Another looks at “writers and the spying game.” All of them are concerned that we learn from history and from our mistakes.
And all of them are “brilliant.” We thank “the brilliant authors and their courageous publishers, as well as everyone who buys tickets and books,” the introduction says. The dynamic is clear enough. These writers are “good” in both senses. They write about serious issues, and they are celebrities. The novelist Rupert Thomson “is on the journey to literary superstardom,” Philip Howard and David Greig “enjoy stellar careers,” Kate Tempest is “a rising star of British literature.” The “U.K.-Iranian Shappi Khorsandi is a star of stand-up who has mined her comic talent to unearth a witty, sometimes shocking debut novel.” About a teenager “battling her addictions.” An important issue.
I don’t mean to be critical of the organizers. I doubt I would do things much differently myself. All festival catalogs are like this. They have to be. But that is the point. The public wants to meet wonderfully talented people with their hearts in the right place. It makes sense. And of course this is how people all over the globe can be drawn into the same bookish conversation. We won’t get the rich specificity of Mexican Spanish, the endless ways Rwandans share being Rwandan, the tones and gestures of China, the complex family relationships of Thailand. Instead, each country is an exotic backdrop for an easily recognizable drama: “The Boy Who Never Was,” for instance, “is a moving depiction of a young gay man’s experience in 1918 Iceland.” Set in a home for sick children in Vienna, “The Chosen Ones” describes “brutality and tenderness in the Nazi era.” Et cetera. I think of one of my favorite authors, Barbara Pym, of her extraordinary ear for a certain kind of dialogue in a very specific social milieu. “A Few Green Leaves,” “Quartet in Autumn” ­­— these are novels whose characters require readers with a shared awareness of fine nuance and infinite shading. I do not think a writer of this kind would be invited to today’s global debate.