
With the summer upon us and the so-called Brexit vote behind us, perhaps you might have some time to read one of the terrific books published recently that touch on big themes in business, finance and technology. I’ve been plowing through stacks of them to make your life simpler. Here are some of my favorites.
The most fun business book I have read this year? “
This is a tell-all of Mr. Martinez’s experience in venture capital and later at Facebook, filled with insights about Silicon Valley — what he calls “the tech whorehouse” — mixed with score-settling anecdotes that will occasionally make you laugh out loud. Clearly there will be people who hate this book — which is probably one of the things that makes it such a great read.
The dedication page includes this gem: “To all my enemies: I could not have done it without you.” Mr. Martinez is particularly incisive when it comes to illustrating how failed ideas that happen to work are often spun into great successes: “What was an improbable bonanza at the hands of the flailing half-blind becomes the inevitable coup of the assured visionary,” he writes. “The world crowns you a genius, and you start acting like one.”
Turning to more serious books, two will help you make sense of the precarious nature of the economy and the future of capitalism. The first is “
Additionally, the journalist Rana Foroohar’s book, “
For people who prefer an introspective read that is both inspiring and has a dash of self-help, Adam Grant’s “
The biggest surprise for me was that the most successful entrepreneurs didn’t quit their day jobs to pursue their ideas; instead, they stayed at work until they had worked all the kinks out of their plans and gotten them off the ground. The other head-scratcher in this book? Procrastination is a great thing. (This was a terrific revelation.)
Mr. Grant’s research shows that some of the most creative thoughts develop during periods of so-called procrastination. (Another book in a similar vein is “
If you’re a deal junkie — and especially if you’re a 
The book is peppered with stories about the likes of Michael Milken, Bruce Wasserstein, Felix Rohatyn and Martin Lipton — a cast of characters who defined an age that irrevocably shaped corporate America today. But more than any book I’ve read, Mr. Teitelman’s has managed to capture how power shifted from a company’s boardroom to its shareholders, a change that is often seen as positive but clearly comes with its own pitfalls.
“So profound has been that revolution that memories of an earlier corporate identity — the patriarchal company managed for the stakeholders, the Platonic corporation — have grown dim, as if it had never existed,” Mr. Teitelman writes.
Speaking of corporate boardrooms, an excellent read is “
Mr. Gramm has collected a series of deliciously rich letters, many of which were never before published, sent to chief executives by investors by everyone from Warren Buffett to Ross Perot. They are eye-opening, often chilling and include fascinating lessons about business.
My personal favorite is this letter from Mr. Loeb to the chief executive of Star Gas Partners: “It seems that Star Gas can only serve as your personal ‘honey pot’ from which to extract salary for yourself and family members, fees for your cronies and to insulate you from the numerous lawsuits that you personally face due to your prior alleged fabrications, misstatements and broken promises. I have known you personally for many years and thus what I am about to say may seem harsh, but is said with some authority. It is time for you to step down from your role as C.E.O. and director so that you can do what you do best: retreat to your waterfront mansion in the Hamptons where you can play tennis and hobnob with your fellow socialites. The matter of repairing the mess you have created should be left to professional management and those that have an economic stake in the outcome.”
With the Olympics coming up in Rio, it is worth picking up “
This is probably a bit of an unfair tease, but one of the best books I’ve read recently isn’t out until October. It is a biography of Alan Greenspan titled, “
Mr. Greenspan is a fascinating subject because for so long he was considered a genius, only to later be blamed for the financial crisis. Mr. Mallaby does an exquisite job going beyond these two versions of the Greenspan narrative and taking the reader inside the complicated mind of a man who may have had one of the largest ever influences over our economy.
Finally, another book that isn’t out yet (until November): “