
LONDON — Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s 
Taken together, Mr. Johnson’s approach to 
Mr. Johnson’s sudden imposition of a lockdown drove thousands of Londoners to stores on a frantic Saturday night to finish Christmas shopping before the doors closed, and 
That vitiated the government’s goal of curbing social contacts in the face of a new variant of the coronavirus that British officials said spreads far faster than the original strain. Indeed, the escapees from London are likely to spread the virus throughout the country, which reported 
The prime minister’s foot-dragging on a post-Brexit deal is more tactical. With only 10 days before 
“The contours of a potential deal have been known since at least last March,” said Sam Lowe, a trade expert at the Center for European Reform. “But the P.M.’s modus operandi is to leave tough decisions until the last minute in the hopes that something better comes along — as evidenced by his approach to Covid-19.”
Tim Bale, professor of politics at Queen Mary University of London, said, “The price of this psychological flaw, and of its political consequences, is paid in lives lost, in the case of Covid; whereas with Brexit, it could be livelihoods lost if some businesses go under because of the uncertainty caused by the delay in making a decision.”
With Britain less than two weeks away from 
The trade talks ground on in Brussels on Sunday with no signs of a breakthrough. The two sides are mainly 
On the pandemic, critics say Mr. Johnson’s scattershot policies have 
In the latest about-face, Mr. Johnson cited new evidence that the variant was up to 70 percent more transmissible than the original virus — data that he said was presented to his cabinet on Friday. Independent scientists generally back up his concern about the variant. But British public health officials said on Sunday that they had first identified the variant in October from a sample taken in September.
The government first disclosed the variant — as well as concerns that it might spread more quickly — last Monday when it placed London and other parts of southern and eastern Britain into what was then the highest level of restrictions. But two days later, Mr. Johnson 
When the leader of the opposition Labour Party, Keir Starmer, suggested in Parliament that Mr. Johnson should rethink that plan, the prime minister mocked him. “I wish he’d had the guts to just say what he really wants to do,” Mr. Johnson said, “which is to cancel the plans people have made and cancel Christmas.”
Now, of course, the prime minister has done exactly that — only he waited three more days, during which even more people made travel plans. On Sunday, the Netherlands, Belgium, Italy, France, Germany and Austria all 
Mr. Starmer, predictably, was 
The prime minister had given a glimpse into his fears earlier in the week when he alluded to Oliver Cromwell, who discouraged Christmas festivities during the ascetic days of the Puritan movement in England in the mid-17th century. The British papers, which had played up the precedent of Cromwell in the past few weeks, 
Surprisingly, perhaps, the tough measures by themselves are not unpopular. A poll conducted by the research firm YouGov after Mr. Johnson’s announcement on Saturday found that 67 percent of people said that they supported added restrictions. But 61 percent of people said the government had handled the rollout poorly.
Mr. Johnson, analysts said, was pressured by the same lawmakers in his Conservative Party who are likely to resist a trade agreement with the European Union. To that extent, the pandemic and the Brexit talks have a link.
Because his mismanagement of the lockdown rules has angered some Conservative lawmakers, they said, Mr. Johnson might now calculate that he cannot afford another backlash in Parliament by striking a trade agreement with the European Union that would be unpopular with the hard-line Brexiteers.
Mr. Johnson has navigated such shoals throughout his political career. His deadline mentality — honed 
He dithered for weeks, for example, before backing Britain’s exit from the European Union, even writing essays that argued both sides of the issue. It was a roll of the dice that paid off in giving him a path to Downing Street.
On balance, analysts still predict that Mr. Johnson will come to terms with the European Union in the next few days. But by leaving the final decision so late, the prime minister has raised the odds that, as with the Christmas lockdown, he may have little choice but to accept the offer on the table.
“Johnson’s technique for dealing with problems is to let them run out of control, building to a point of sufficient crisis that delay is no longer viable,” Rafael Behr wrote in 