
LONDON — With just 23 days until 
The 370-acre Honda factory in Swindon, about 80 miles west of London, operates a “just in time” manufacturing supply chain, with goods arriving and going straight onto the production line to avoid large and costly storage facilities.
Production was halted
Shipping problems have been
Shipments of personal protective equipment have been 
“It really is a perfect storm,” said Peter Ward, the head of the U.K. Warehousing Association. He said storage facilities were also running at full capacity.
The delays have led to reports of 
The pandemic has caused problems for shipping ports around the world. When China shut down at the start of the year to combat the spread of coronavirus, global trade slowed down. By the time Chinese manufacturing restarted, Europe was in lockdown. Shipping containers of goods arrived with nowhere to go. There were also fewer sailings, so empty containers weren’t getting back to China.
“That is still working itself out,” said Alex Veitch, the general manager of public policy at Logistics U.K., a trade group.
Aggravating the problem in Britain has been a large shipment of medical masks, gowns, gloves and other equipment ordered for the National Health Service and, temporarily, left at Felixstowe in storage. At the end of November, the port operator said it was working with the government to clear the mountain of shipping containers, some of which were 
Felixstowe had drawn complaints before the pandemic. It is one of the least efficient major market container ports in the world, according to data from IHS Markit. It has struggled to deal with growing international trade and larger ships carrying more containers. It takes twice as long to move a container on or off a ship in Felixstowe as it does in some of China’s busiest ports, IHS Markit data shows.
Because Felixstowe and other deep-sea ports mostly handle trade from Asia, these delays aren’t the same as what is expected to come in the new year, when Britain breaks away from its largest trading partner.
From Jan. 1, Britain’s trading relationship to the European Union will change and customs checks and, possibly, tariffs will be introduced. While a trade deal is still being negotiated, border processes will change regardless. For the first time, hundreds of thousands of businesses will need to complete customs checks and other new trading requirements.
The government has been warning businesses to prepare, but trade groups say some companies have been too busy dealing with the fallout from the pandemic. Mr. Ward said importers and exporters were less prepared, though warehouses and transport operators have done what they can.
The crunch point is likely to be on the south coast, in Dover or Folkestone, the busiest places for the transport of goods between Britain and the European Union, either 
“The roll-on, roll-off at the Eurotunnel movement of goods is unique to the U.K., Ireland and Northern Europe,” Mr. Veitch said. It’s a huge business, he said, that’s built on the ability of someone to drive goods to and from Britain from mainland Europe “as if you were driving to the next town.”
But a 
“There will be delays in January for sure,” Mr. Veitch said. “There’s too much to do and not enough time to do it.”
The British government said it would wait six months before imposing some customs checks on incoming shipments; but on the French side, they will begin right away. Last month, French border police tested post-Brexit immigration procedures by checking documents of trucks crossing from Britain into France. It led to 
Honda is already looking beyond British ports. It announced this year that it would