
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering the administration of 
Britain on Tuesday began
Those first recipients included older Britons and 
But any such fantasies were tempered by the bleak winter ahead, with the virus still spreading and claiming, on average, 
Here are 
A new paper from the University of Oxford on the AstraZeneca vaccine does little to answer the most 
With an average of 21,000 new cases a day, 
The Trump administration is 
President-elect Joe Biden pledged to get “at least 100 million Covid vaccine shots into the arms of the American people” 
For weeks, Prime Minister Boris Johnson of Britain has played 
Mr. Johnson dropped that threat yesterday, raising hopes that a more diplomatic approach could yield a breakthrough
In a statement, Britain agreed to remove parts of legislation that would have allowed the government to override aspects of 
This year’s Arctic Report Card, an annual assessment by an international panel of scientists, warned that 
That warming has cascading effects elsewhere, raising sea levels, influencing ocean circulation and, scientists increasingly suggest, playing a role in extreme weather.
This year, the minimum extent of sea ice in the Arctic Ocean, reached at the end of the melt season in September, was the second-lowest in the satellite record, while permafrost continued to thaw and erode along Arctic coastlines, leaving Indigenous communities struggling to cope with damaged infrastructure.
Barack Obama’s memoir “A Promised Land” is both a historical account of his time as president and an introspective self-portrait. The Times’s former chief book critic, Michiko Kakutani, 
Mr. Obama wrote his first draft on yellow legal pads, doing his best work between 10 p.m. and 2 a.m. His writing was the culmination of years of inspiration from literature, he said: “When I think about how I learned to write, who I mimicked, the voice that always comes to mind the most is James Baldwin.”
Dean Baquet, The Times’s executive editor, believes that 2020 will go down as a signature year in history, alongside years like 1968, 1945 and 1868.
“It will long be remembered and studied as a time when more than 1.5 million people globally died during a pandemic, racial unrest gripped the world and democracy itself faced extraordinary tests,” he writes, in the introduction to The Times’s annual Year in Pictures feature.
Below is a (very) limited selection of some of these extraordinary photographs. 
That’s it for this briefing. Have a wonderful Wednesday.
— Natasha