
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering Britain’s first 
Health care workers, volunteers and the military in Britain will begin administering the Pfizer-BioNTech coronavirus vaccine on Tuesday morning, aiming to 
The National Health Service has taken on its biggest ever logistical challenge by vaccinating tens of millions of people against the coronavirus in a matter of months. At the same time, the law enforcement authorities are contending with an array of potential security threats to the vaccination campaign.
Here are 
Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada announced that the country 
Several 
A lack of trust in the Kremlin is hobbling 
Du Weimin, the “king of vaccines,” is one of the richest men in China. His company is now the exclusive mainland manufacturer for the coronavirus vaccine made by AstraZeneca. But in China, 
After Pfizer delivers its first 100 million vaccine doses to the U.S., the country 
With time running out in Brexit negotiations, Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Monday declared that 
Mr. Johnson’s announcement, after a 90-minute phone call with the president of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, raised the stakes as the talks enter their endgame. After 11 months of grinding negotiations, a face-to-face meeting may be the last hope.
Key sticking points remain 
Georgia’s secretary of state 
The move came less than 48 hours after Mr. Trump appeared in Georgia, at a rally at which he again claimed the election had been stolen from him because of fraudulent voting.
Mr. Trump’s rally was intended to support the candidacies of two Republican senators who are locked in high-stakes runoff races, which together will decide which party controls the Senate. To win, the 
When school, work and shopping moved online this year, demand skyrocketed for the tech that makes those interactions possible. Add in low interest rates and a surging stock market, and 
“I haven’t seen anything like this in over 20 years,” said Eric Paley, an investor at the venture firm Founder Collective. “The party is as loud and the drinks are flowing as freely as the dot-com boom, despite that we’re all drinking at home and alone.”
The nation’s poets laureate have a real sense of mission. They aim to encourage an appreciation for poetry, to challenge us, to generate some buzz for the art form. That has required more effort and ingenuity during the coronavirus pandemic. And so, like firefighters waiting in a quiet station for the call to duty, they embraced the Times assignment quickly and wholeheartedly.
Pulling the project together was not without drama, though.
Some poets were tricky to track down. The writer from Vermont has no email address. But her friend, the poet laureate of Rhode Island, knew her phone number and sent her a text message to make sure she had received our query.
Other submissions got caught up in email spam filters. And the poet from Oregon, much like every never-satisfied reporter in the world, kept finessing his poem, even as our deadline crept closer. One poet worried she might have contracted the coronavirus, but she still managed to send a submission.
The result: On a day that also included otherwise alarming news, Times readers also got a large helping of poetry to make it all go down a bit more easily. Even in a post-pandemic world, this might be a terrific tradition to continue.
Thanks for starting your day with The Times.
— Natasha