
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering the risks of China’s top-down approach to the 
Chinese leaders on Monday called the coronavirus epidemic “a major test of China’s system and capacity for governance,” as confirmed infections 
The announcement by the Communist Party leadership came as the government was applying familiar authoritarian techniques — like asking neighbors to inform on one another — to help control an outbreak that 
Many people from Wuhan, the epicenter of the outbreak, are desperate for treatment, 
The race to unseat President Trump in November was thrown into confusion on Monday, as 
As of midnight in Iowa, or 6 a.m. Tuesday in London, the results were delayed because of what Democratic Party officials called a “quality control” effort before they were made public. A party spokeswoman said there was no issue with the integrity of the vote.
Britain and the European Union on Monday 
Europe’s chief negotiator, Michel Barnier, insisted from Brussels that Britain commit to preventing unfair competition if it wants access to the E.U. market without tariffs and quotas.
But in a riposte from London, Prime Minister Boris Johnson of Britain threatened to walk away from talks on a free-trade agreement if the bloc tries to tie his country too closely to its rules as a price.
Beauty and color in Iraq were suppressed for decades by poverty and government oppression or indifference.
No longer: A 15-story shell of a structure in Baghdad is full of paintings, sculptures, photographs and shrines that criticize the country’s leadership and pay homage to protesters who have died in recent antigovernment demonstrations.
Our correspondent Alissa Rubin 
DES MOINES — I was in a tree.
It was November and I had been in Iowa for less than a month, and set out to profile someone who brings Iowa to life for our readers. 
That turned out to involve climbing a tree and quietly waiting for a deer. As my fingers and toes lost feeling in the cold, I thought, 
My goal was to understand the people of Iowa and the issues they care about, in addition to the presidential candidates spending time and resources in the state and the web of volunteers, staff members and strategists who help them.
I spent many days at campaign events in high school gymnasiums and college auditoriums and senior centers, analyzing the candidates’ messages and talking to voters.
I learned that many Democrats here want above all to beat President Trump — a desire that made it extraordinarily difficult for them to choose a candidate. Some Republicans and independents wanted that, too.
I learned that cars with all-wheel drive can still fishtail in the snow and that pizza from Casey’s General Store is delicious. (But no, I did not try the breakfast pizza, a particularly polarizing Iowa delicacy.)
It might be more practical, and less expensive, for The Times and other news organizations not to move reporters out to Iowa before the caucuses. But there is no substitute for spending a lot of time here, talking to Iowans every day and experiencing the all-consuming nature of the run-up to the state’s caucuses firsthand.
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Mike