
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering 
Developing
Russia signaled that it was planning to 
Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, and other Republicans sound increasingly confident that 
They’ve offered multiple rationales for refusing fresh testimony, but 
On Wednesday, the Senate began a two-day question-and-answer session with the House impeachment managers and the president’s legal team. 
“Every public official I know believes that his election is in the public interest,” Mr. Dershowitz said. “Mostly, you’re right.” Our congressional editor 
A World Health Organization committee is set to meet for the second time in a week to decide whether the outbreak is a global health emergency. Today’s meeting comes as the number of confirmed cases surpassed 7,700 worldwide, most of them in China. 
More than a dozen countries, including the U.S., are 
Britain is scheduled to formally withdraw from the European Union on Friday, after more than three years of confusion, political division and missed deadlines.
But 
As primary season begins, you might be unsure which presidential candidate best matches your views and priorities.
To help, we’ve produced 
From Beijing’s perspective, Zulhumar Isaac, above, a Uighur woman from the region of Xinjiang, grew up in a model ethnic-minority family: Her mother was a Communist Party cadre, and her father worked at a newspaper that toed the official line.
But when President Xi Jinping’s government began cracking down on Uighurs, her parents were detained. Our writer spent nearly a year documenting 
They’re 
Some protesters held a placard that read: “Dear Hindus, We rejected an Islamic state in 1947. Now it’s your turn to reject a Hindu state. Sincerely, Secular India.” That really spoke to me because 1947 was the partition, when Hindus in Pakistan decided to stay or flee to India, and Muslims in India had a similar choice.
India chose secularism in 1947. It was majority Hindu and said its strength was its diversity, and that it would embrace Christians and Muslims and Sikhs just as much as its Hindu citizens.
Over all, India’s Muslim community has not been well organized in recent decades, but 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Chris