
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering the 
The death toll from the new coronavirus has risen to more than 300 people, with more than 14,000 known infections worldwide. In the Philippines, a
Many airlines have suspended service to China, and the Philippines, Australia, Indonesia, Vietnam and Singapore have joined the U.S. in temporarily 
But some top officials in Southeast Asia, which has the largest cluster of coronavirus patients outside China, have 
The impeachment trial of President Trump
After the Senate 
A few Republicans have conceded that they believe Democrats proved their case that Mr. Trump tried to leverage security aid to Ukraine for political gain, but argue that doing so 
Today brings the first contest in the race for the Democratic presidential nomination: the Iowa caucus, whose 
Iowa has huge influence in picking presidential candidates, but the prairie state doesn’t look much like the country as a whole — 
It’s the start of a new era for Britain.
The country formally withdrew from the European Union on Friday after nearly half a century of membership, 
True to its name, the world’s lingerie powerhouse has kept a secret: that of a 
Victoria’s Secret now says it is reforming itself, but its future is unclear in the #MeToo era. 
The yearslong exit from the European Union happened at midnight Friday in Brussels, 11 p.m. in Britain itself. (Because of course they’re in different time zones.)
Our London correspondent Ben Mueller was on duty. “It felt a little anticlimactic,” he said. “There had been such fireworks, and then the legislation passed without contention.”
Alcohol was banned in Parliament Square for the big celebration, but vendors brought in beer. “They couldn’t do without it,” Ben said.
The immediate difference? “Britain no longer has representation or say in the machinery of the European Union.”
Many other aspects of the departure remain, to be resolved (or not) during a transition period that will end when 2020 does. Prime Minister Boris Johnson has already signaled a tough stand for trade talks that will begin in March.
Ben noted that even hopes to have the moment marked by a bong from Big Ben (no relation) were dashed. Westminster’s famed four-faced clock is under renovation, and speeding the process up to allow the bell to sound would have cost 500,000 pounds. Efforts to raise the money fell short and parliamentary authorities nixed the plan.
So a recording of Big Ben was played outside, and inside 10 Downing Street, Mr. Johnson banged a gong.
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Penn