
The bill, passed by Congress as part of a larger spending package, would allow people to collect aid until March and revive supplemental benefits of $300 a week on top of the basic relief check.
But Mr. Trump, who is pushing for larger direct payments to Americans, 
Because the president has refused to sign the bill, the United States now also faces a looming government shutdown on Tuesday and the expiration of a moratorium on evictions at the end of the year.
President-elect Joe Biden on Saturday said, “This abdication of responsibility has devastating consequences.”
A 101-year-old woman in a nursing home in eastern Germany became 
In the United States, where vaccinations began two weeks ago, new surveys show that the portion of people saying they 
Scientists will continue to study how they can stop the spread of the virus and will try to determine whether 
At least 41 businesses were damaged when an 
Before the blast, a message blared from the R.V., warning that a bomb would detonate within 15 minutes and then counting down, with music, the police said. 
Britain will leave the European Union on Jan. 1, but its exit is only the beginning of 
The trade deal, reached on Christmas Eve, smooths the flow of goods across British borders. But it leaves financial firms without the biggest benefit of E.U. membership: the ability to easily offer services across the region from a single base. That loss is especially painful for Britain, which ran a surplus of 18 billion pounds, or $24 billion, on trade in financial and other services with the European Union in 2019.
Lawmakers in Britain and Europe are preparing to vote on the deal in the coming days.
Alan Cowell, a longtime Times correspondent, wrote about the Brexit fight and how the chaos last week of trucks stuck on highways in Britain because of new coronavirus restrictions, above, seemed to offer 
Across the United States, thousands of businesses have closed during the pandemic, but the demise of so many beloved hangouts cuts especially deep. Above, Ma’am Sir opened in 2018 to rave reviews for its signature Filipino dishes, like sizzling pork sisig and oxtail kare-kare.
They were local landmarks — watering holes, shops and haunts that weathered recessions and world wars, only to succumb to the economic ravages of the coronavirus. 
President Trump failed to get any traction in courts with his baseless claims of manipulated voting and insistence on recounts, as in Georgia, above, but he has 
Georgia’s Republican legislators have discussed toughening state rules on voting by mail and on voter identification. In Pennsylvania, Republican lawmakers were considering reversing moves that had made it easier to vote absentee, and their counterparts in Wisconsin were considering tighter restrictions for mail voting, as well as for early voting.
Subscribers help make Times journalism possible. To support our efforts, 
Zhang Zhan, a 37-year-old former lawyer, reported on the lockdown in Wuhan. She was arrested and faces accusations of spreading lies in 
A tide of 
And 
Even though the pandemic has killed more than 330,000 people in the United States, put millions out of work and shuttered businesses across the country, the 
While the stock market ended with a small loss this past week, the S&P 500, Dow Jones industrial average and Nasdaq are just shy of record highs. Many investors, even those leery of growing signs of overconfidence, say it’s reasonable to expect stocks to continue to climb.
A shop excavated this month in Pompeii provides fresh clues about 
Speaking of eruptions, if you’d rather stick with modern cuisine, try a 
They’re big truffle-like treats, filled with marshmallows and candy — and, for the grown-up diner, alcohol — that are designed to dissolve dramatically in warm milk. 
“You’re not sure when the explosion will happen,” said a fan of the slow-mo chocolate deluge. “You wait in anticipation. And then, when it does, there’s joy.”
The troubled release of Cyberpunk 2077, the mystery of Chartreuse and George Clooney on his new movie and Donald Trump: These stories and more are our latest edition of 
Our editors also suggest 
The news quiz is off this week, but here’s the front page of 
Have a great week.