
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering the ongoing 
Brussels has demanded the speedy withdrawal of proposed Brexit legislation that Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s government 
It is the most serious crisis yet to hit negotiations on a trade agreement for when Britain leaves the European Union’s trade zone. The talks have failed to make any significant progress yet have somehow remained alive. The proposed legislation would override aspects of 
In a toughly worded statement that underscored the growing tension, the European Commission — the bloc’s executive arm — suggested it was ready to take legal action against the British government, accusing it of threatening Northern Ireland’s fragile peace agreement.
Russian spies have been hacking U.S. campaign officials working for both Republicans and the Democrats, while China has focused on penetrating the campaign of Joe Biden, according to an assessment by Microsoft.
The 
A U.S. assessment last month said China was supporting Mr. Biden in the race, but Microsoft found that Chinese hackers had been attacking the private email accounts of Mr. Biden’s campaign staff members.
The global death toll from the coronavirus has surpassed 900,000, 
The true death toll may be higher; The Times has found underestimates in 
The pandemic is ebbing in some countries that were hit hard early on, but the number of new cases is growing faster than ever worldwide, with more than 200,000 reported each day on average. Cases are worryingly high in India, the United States and Israel. In Brazil, cases are high but appear to be decreasing.
Here are 
Wuhan, China, will resume international flights this month. Carriers are applying for permission to restart direct flights to cities including Bangkok; Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; Hanoi, Vietnam; Singapore; and Tokyo, according to state media.
A pared-down 
The U.S. extradition hearing of Julian Assange, the WikiLeaks founder, which 
Spain’s return to school has so far been “very positive,” the country’s education minister said on Thursday, praising the management and staffs of schools for their efforts.
A new generation of activists has led a charge against Christophe Girard, the former deputy mayor of Paris accused of sexual abuse and criticized for his support of the pedophile writer Gabriel Matzneff. In a country where the #MeToo movement was slow to take off, the case has become 
One critic said younger feminists were too quick to confront powerful men. Younger feminists say focusing on violence against women is central. “We’re always asked to reaffirm that we’re not angry,” said Alice Coffin, a city councilor and activist in the newest wave of feminism. “But, me, I’m very angry.”
And there are a bunch of students who shared online their shock that virus-infected students or people who were waiting for tests were assigned to share a room, bathroom or dorm — conditions that they worried could foster infections. In some cases, their colleges then improved services for quarantined students.
Yes, some kids are partying or going to bars in large numbers without masks. But epidemiologists said some schools also made the risks worse by failing to make systematic changes to help curtail the virus. Some schools reduced capacity in dorms, and that helps.
The best practice would be caring for the mental health and physical safety of students who are quarantined, and not leaving them to fend for themselves. Schools have to plan in advance for what should happen in isolation dorms, and what it’s going to be like for an 18-year-old who gets sick and feels cut off.
Thanks for joining me for today’s briefing. See you next week.
— Natasha