
The second and final day of cross-examination is 
And Representative Adam Schiff, the lead House impeachment manager, above, jumped on a question about the Trump team’s broad interpretation of executive power.
“What we have seen over the last couple days is a descent into constitutional madness,” Mr. Schiff said.
Senators are expected to vote on Friday about whether to hear new witnesses, and Republicans appeared confident they would have enough support to block any new testimony and ultimately acquit Mr. Trump. But Democrats are hinting at a 
The warning came hours after the World Health Organization declared the coronavirus spreading from China 
Elsewhere, Russia partly closed its Chinese border and thousands were trapped on a cruise ship in Italy as fears spread about the coronavirus. And from Asia to Australia, Canada and France, the panic has 
The bloc’s 27 remaining member nations 
But this is Brexit, so there’s more. 
The Trump administration continued to weaken a century-old law protecting migratory birds by 
The administration also said it would 
His campaign has redirected funds from other early primary states to 
But there are three other Democratic candidates bunched into the top tier there: Bernie Sanders, Pete Buttigieg and Elizabeth Warren. Mr. Biden’s fund-raisers, allies and campaign officials say that a disappointing finish could dampen his online fund-raising at a crucial juncture.
Unsure which candidate best reflects your views and priorities? 
That dip, from 2015 to 2017, worried demographers, who had not seen an outright decline since 1993, during the AIDS epidemic. They now caution that it’s too early to tell if the country has turned the corner with opioid overdoses.
Improvements in cancer mortality rates represented the single largest share of the life expectancy gain in 2018, at about 30 percent.
Back in his playing days, Bryant was known to use helicopters to shuttle between his home in Orange County and the Lakers’ arena downtown to maximize time at home rather than on the freeway. His death on Sunday underscores the 
As both shows end this week, our critic reflects on how TV’s two great moral comedies — one about the perils of Hollywood and the other about the afterlife —
The creator of NBC’s “The Good Place” (the finale is tonight at 8:30 p.m. Eastern and Pacific, and 7:30 Central), talked to us about political parallels, silly tortures and what the show had to say about
More than 20 years into a music career that doesn’t always get enough credit, and a recent Oscar snub for her work in “Hustlers,” she seems to have finally found validation in her pop career. Taking center stage on Sunday night, alongside Shakira, is a role she was born to play, our writer argues.
Looking back, perhaps the most bizarre halftime show in Super Bowl history happened 25 years ago. It had snakes, it had Indiana Jones, it had Patti LaBelle dressed as a temple goddess. 
As of October, the Trump administration put a 25 percent tax on all wines under 14 percent alcohol from France, Spain and Germany. Sparkling wines are excluded, a leftover from the old distinction between table and dessert wines. The administration has further threatened a 100 percent tariff on all wines from the E.U.
Needless to say, the wine world is anxious. Right now, however, the market is still full of options.
Our wine critic, who has long argued that “the best values are found in the historic wine cultures of Europe,” selected a snapshot of what’s out there, from Chile to Italy. 
À votre santé.