
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering the panic around the 
Russia closed off part of its 2,600-mile eastern border to China as the number of confirmed cases worldwide surpassed 7,700, by far the most still in China. 
More than a dozen countries, including the U.S., are 
Fears that a sick passenger had the coronavirus led the Italian authorities to 
Mr. Modi and his Bharatiya Janata Party have invoked Gandhi in speeches and pamphlets, saying he would have supported a contentious citizenship law.
The protesters — who see the law as discriminatory, 
Britain is scheduled to formally withdraw from the European Union on Friday, after more than three years of confusion, political division and missed deadlines.
At 11 p.m. local time, the end of that chapter will arrive, a relief to many Brexiteers.
But 
William Bradley Pitt was born in 1963. But Brad Pitt, our co-chief film critic writes, sprang forth in a 13-second scene in the 1991 film “Thelma & Louise” in which the camera panned from his chest to his face in an “ode to eroticized masculine beauty.”
Ever since, his life has been closely watched and his acting skills undervalued — by the academy, fans, journalists and casting directors alike. But what he’s really done is create 
It’s an event that transcends the sport. The N.F.L. has been brilliant in turning it into a spectacle, and there’s nothing like it. That’s partly because of how the league has structured it — one final game, winner takes all, in a neutral city, on the first Sunday of February, every year. Other sports don’t have the same permanency.
Often when there’s an injury timeout, they go to commercial. I’ll be able to see doctors attending players, including a
It’s a collision sport at heart, and if you don’t want see it, turn on something else. If you can’t reconcile that violence, and it is violence, then there are many other sports. I think it’s O.K. to watch it and have misgivings. It’s human nature — you can both admire and be horrified by the same thing.
That’s it for this briefing. I will be out next week on vacation, but you’ll be in great hands with my colleague Penn Bullock.
Have a great weekend.
— Melina