
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering a transportation shutdown to prevent the spread of the
China said it was 
As of 10 a.m. today, planes and trains leaving the city were to be canceled, and buses, subways and ferries within it suspended. Residents were urged not to leave.
The move could upend the plans of millions of Chinese citizens, who travel in huge numbers during the Lunar New Year holiday that officially begins on Friday. Experts have warned that the virus would proliferate during the mass travel period.
Two prominent United Nations experts said that a WhatsApp account belonging to Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman appears to have been used to hack into the cellphone of Jeff Bezos in an effort to 
The news came after a forensic analysis found with 
Months later, the tabloid publisher American Media Inc., whose head was courting the Saudis, reported that Mr. Bezos had been 
At the time Mr. Bezos’ phone was hacked, The Post was publishing coverage critical of the kingdom. Jamal Khashoggi, the dissident Saudi writer who was later killed by a Saudi hit team in Istanbul, was a regular columnist and often criticized the crown prince.
If you thought this step in Britain’s yearslong drama over its departure from the European Union would be more complicated, you weren’t alone.
But without any of the histrionics of the last few years, Parliament finalized a withdrawal bill and 
Queen Elizabeth II is expected to approve the bill, and the European Parliament is expected to pass it with ease next week.
Investors have long been divided on Elon Musk’s electric car company, with many betting on its stock to fall. But since October, when the long-troubled company reported an unexpected quarterly profit, its fans have been lifting the price.
Today, their trading 
While observers and scientists around the world have pointed out the connections between climate change and the devastating wildfires in Australia, Craig Kelly, a Parliament member, has used this dark hour to 
With posts and comments on his increasingly popular Facebook page that cherry-pick data and make unsupported claims, he has amassed a following in wide areas of the country. But even some members of his own party are trying to distance themselves.
Walking the streets, you definitely feel a sense of urgency is spreading. Lots of people are now wearing masks and avoiding big crowds. All of this is happening in the midst of the Lunar New Year holiday, so it has forced many families to rethink their plans. People are canceling dinners, staying home from work and hunkering down.
Yes, it’s almost impossible to avoid crowds in a modern Chinese city. But Wuhan is trying to push people to take more precautions. When you get in a cab now, there are reminders about opening the window and wearing a mask. Some of the famous street markets are now totally empty, surrounded by signs warning about the virus.
Several people told me about their memories of the SARS crisis of 2003, which killed hundreds of people in China. They’re worried this could erupt into a full-blown epidemic. Of course, others say they’re not very concerned and have faith that China can beat this. One common theme is people say they want the Chinese government to speak honestly about the severity of the outbreak — something that didn’t happen during SARS.
Yes, at the advice of experts, my colleague Elsie Chen and I are washing our hands regularly and avoiding meat markets and hospital wards. We are wearing masks all the time. It’s a bit odd having that kind of barrier when you’re interviewing people on the street. But we’ve found that it is quickly becoming the norm in Wuhan. There are even videos now circulating of people giving New Year’s toasts with their masks on!
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Melina