
BRIGHTON, England — Tens of thousands of people protested in British cities in solidarity with those rising up against police brutality against black Americans in the past week. They highlighted similar 
Between 1672 and 1689, Colston’s Royal African Company shipped about 100,000 enslaved people from West Africa to the Americas and the Caribbean, branding them on their chests with his corporation’s acronym, RAC. Disease and dehydration killed more than 20,000 people taken onto those ships by Colston’s company, and their bodies were thrown into the ocean. Yet Colston’s bronze statue, which was erected in 1895 in Bristol, was engraved with the inscription “ … one of the most virtuous and wise sons” of the city.
Toppling statues is one way of unsettling accounts of the past that fail to acknowledge the 
The glorification of the British Empire despite its histories of 
Dispossession, appropriation, 
These histories rarely make it into the standard narratives of how Britain came to be. Instead, there is either 
The limited public understanding of the empire, through education, popular histories and 
Across the 20th century, decolonization movements — from Ireland to India and across the African continent — began systematically to dismantle the imperial state. Britain’s decline from an imperial global power to a “small island” coincided with its entry into 
It is significant that it was when Britain sought to leave the European Union that questions both of the “breakup” of Britain (previously united by the imperial project) and unresolved issues of its imperial past emerged center stage. The discourses around the Brexit referendum sought 
This inadequate historical understanding disfigured contemporary arguments about who belongs and has rights, as was evident in the 
The parochiality of Brexit has been disrupted by two more immediate contexts. The resurgence of the global Black Lives Matter movement in light of the death of George Floyd and the 
The inherited consequences of colonialism are evident across all British ethnic minority populations. And their roles as front-line workers, keeping the country going during this crisis, has shifted the public sense of who constitutes the 
The inequalities and injustices created by colonialism, enslavement and empire are manifest in the public display of statues of men such as Edward Colston, Cecil Rhodes, Henry Dundas and Robert Clive. They are manifest in statues of King Leopold II in Belgium or any number of Confederate statues in the United States. They represent and glorify those histories and call us to agree to be defined by them, to be represented by them.
It is only if you are unaffected by Colston’s trade in human beings that it is possible to value his philanthropy separated from it. If it is understood that his philanthropy is intimately connected to the slave trade and the imperial project and that we continue to live the hierarchies and inequalities established through such historical processes, then a reckoning is necessary. This is particularly so when we acknowledge the subjects of empire, and those who were subjected by it, as also being who we, collectively, are today.
A mature political community addresses historical wrongs by recognizing and acting upon the just claims of others. In the process, it tackles the contemporary inequalities that flow from those histories and comes to a more expansive self-understanding.
The toppling of Colston’s statue has made a public conversation about our colonial past possible. Equality and freedom from domination is not given; it has to be struggled for. Those who 
A statue topples and the veil of colonial ignorance is torn. This is not a moment to reinscribe that ignorance. Rather, it is a moment to acknowledge what has now become collectively visible and to represent ourselves anew.
Gurminder K. Bhambra is a professor of postcolonial and decolonial studies in the School of Global Studies, University of Sussex.