
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning. It’s the last day of the year.
We’re covering 
More than four years after Britain voted to leave the European Union, its Parliament yesterday overwhelmingly 
The new travel and trade rules, reached after 
In a departure from prevailing strategies around the world, the British government also decided to begin giving as many people as possible a first vaccine dose rather than holding back supplies for quick second shots.
Here are 
A significant subset of 
The rollout of vaccines in the U.S. has gotten off to 
Millions more people in England were told they would be placed under 
Officials in two U.S. states, Colorado and California, say they have 
Chinese and European Union leaders 
But the landmark pact faces political opposition in Europe and Washington that could derail it. A large faction in the European Parliament opposes the accord, saying it does not do enough to stop human rights abuses in China.
The deal would loosen restrictions imposed on European companies operating in China, and open up China to European banks, which have struggled in recent years.
At just 12, Helena Zengel has already won the German equivalent of the Oscars. Now she has landed a starring role in “News of the World,” opposite Tom Hanks, whom she had never heard of before the film.
We 
The purpose of the 1,200-page trade deal between Britain and the E.U. was to avoid very disruptive changes, such as tariffs and quotas. But there’ll be an array of other bureaucratic requirements that did not exist before Jan. 1.
People won’t see a sudden shift in the price of fresh fruit and vegetables in London supermarkets. But it’ll have an impact on Britons who, for example, want to bring their dog on vacation to the continent or who want to get a job somewhere in the E.U.
A lot of stuff still needs to be negotiated. A major driving force of the British economy is the services sector, including legal, financial, consulting and other services. Virtually none of that is covered yet in the trade agreement.
Without it, the negotiations for the trade deal would have been the biggest story in the country. But Brexit was almost completely overshadowed by the coronavirus. Britain is preoccupied with this health crisis, which will muffle the immediate effects of Brexit. But over time those will become more visible. Which means that the debate over Brexit may not be finished in the country.
One of the driving arguments in favor of Brexit was throwing off the shackles of the E.U., so that Britain would become this agile, dynamic, independent economy that could strike deals with everyone in the world. But rising protectionism and populism have made making free-trade agreements harder. The “global Britain” arguments looked more valid in May 2016 than in January 2021. In a way, 
That’s it for this briefing. See you in the new year.
— Natasha