
Flybe, an ailing regional airline in Britain that was praised for flying into underserved corners of the country, ceased operations on Thursday after financial strains caused by coronavirus.
In a 
The company reportedly had 
“This is a sad day for U.K. aviation, and we know that Flybe’s decision to stop trading will be very distressing for all of its employees and customers,” said Richard Moriarty, chief executive of Britain’s Civil Aviation Authority, 
Officials expressed hope that other airlines would pick up some of Flybe’s service. On Thursday afternoon, Loganair, a Glasgow-based regional airline, announced that it would take up 16 of Flybe’s routes, and offered to hire some of its pilots, cabin crew and office support crew.
The coronavirus outbreak, which has sickened more than 95,700 people in at least 81 countries, has hit the travel industry hard, 
For Flybe, which had been on financial life support for months, an increase in bookings was necessary for its survival, Graham Braithwaite, director of transport systems at Cranfield University, said by phone on Thursday.
“It was already in trouble, and the coronavirus accelerated the inevitable,” just as bookings were expected to pick up ahead of spring and summer holidays, Mr. Braithwaite said.
As a low-cost regional airline, Flybe was “operating in a very competitive and price sensitive market, and it was vulnerable to rising costs,” said Lucy Budd, professor of Air Transport Management at De Montfort University, in an email on Thursday.
Mr. Braithwaite added: “Flybe ran out of options and ran out time.” He warned that Flybe might have been the first airline whose collapse was sped up by the virus, but that it wouldn’t be the last.
Flybe’s prospects briefly brightened a year ago when it was bought for 2.2 million pounds ($2.8 million) by Richard Branson’s carrier, Virgin Atlantic, and its partners, Stobart Group and Cyrus Capital.
But financial problems continued, and the 
In January, Sajid Javid, then chancellor of the Exchequer, said the government would take new measures to support connectivity across Britain.
“I welcome Flybe’s confirmation that they will continue to operate as normal, safeguarding jobs in U.K. and ensuring flights continue to serve communities across the whole of the U.K.,” he said 
But the measures received a lukewarm response from Prime Minister Boris Johnson.
“It’s not for government to step in and save companies that simply run into trouble,” 
In February 
Flybe, which was based in Exeter, in southwestern England, dominated many smaller airports. For example, it provided 95 percent of all flights at Southampton Airport, along Britain’s southern coast.
Another major service hub was Belfast, in Northern Ireland.
“The airline was a significant economic driver for the region, carrying 1.6 million passengers to and from Belfast in 2019,” Brian Ambrose, chief executive of Belfast City Airport, 
Questions regarding regional connectivity and the impact on the local work force will need to be answered by the government in the coming days, but for Flybe staff who found themselves unemployed overnight, one question lingered: What now?
“It’s really sad,” Katherine Densham, one employee, 
“A lot of us have done this job straight out of college,” she said, “so I’m not really sure what we are going to do now.”