
LONDON — What was expected to be a routine cabinet reshuffle by Prime Minister Boris Johnson took an extraordinary turn on Thursday, when the Treasury chief, Sajid Javid, abruptly resigned rather than cede some of his power over economic policy to Mr. Johnson.
The surprise departure of such a senior figure was a significant blow to Mr. Johnson; the Treasury is traditionally the most powerful department in the British government, and the chancellor of the Exchequer, who leads it, is usually the second-most important politician after the prime minister.
The drama unfolded on a difficult day for Mr. Johnson, as the opposition Labour Party demanded clarity about who had paid for a luxury Caribbean vacation taken by the prime minister and his partner in late December and early January.
While there had been tension between 10 Downing Street and Mr. Javid’s Treasury, no one predicted that he would lose his job in a reshuffle that was expected to be relatively modest.
But Mr. Johnson’s office insisted that Mr. Javid fire his advisers, who would be replaced by a unit of special advisers working for both Downing Street and the Treasury — though ultimately reporting to the prime minister. Mr. Javid would effectively have lost control of some of his top staff, which proved too much for him to stomach.
“I don’t believe any self-respecting minister would accept such conditions,” he said after his resignation.
Encouraged by his 
The maneuvers underscored Mr. Johnson’s willingness to exert his power, even at the risk of losing his chancellor, following a 
Mr. Javid had been chancellor for only seven months, an unusually short period, and he leaves without delivering a budget, something he was expected to do next month.
Last year, 
Mr. Javid was already sensitive to suggestions that Downing Street was the real power behind economic policy. His enemies had nicknamed him “Chino” — short for “Chancellor in name only.”
While there is a history of tension between prime ministers and chancellors, resignations are rare, and usually spell trouble. At the least, Mr. Javid, who contested the Conservative Party leadership last year, could emerge as a critic of the prime minister. 
But his resignation also allows Mr. Johnson, who took office in July, to concentrate more power in 10 Downing Street.
His reshuffle is a chance to freshen the Conservatives’ profile and to give the sense of a government moving forward after three years of Brexit paralysis.
The first changes came Thursday morning, with 
Over the course of several hours, top politicians from a range of government ministries took to Twitter to announce that they would be leaving, including Geoffrey Cox, who as attorney general gave legal advice that complicated the efforts of Theresa May, Mr. Johnson’s predecessor, to leave the European Union.
The foreign secretary, Dominic Raab, and the home secretary, Priti Patel,
Liz Truss will be secretary of state for trade and will lead trade negotiations with non-European Union countries. Negotiations with the European Union on post-Brexit trade will be conducted by David Frost, an adviser in Downing Street.
The government had earlier sought to play down predictions of a “
Earlier this week the prime minister gave 
That project had been criticized by Mr. Johnson’s adviser, Mr. Cummings, who has a reputation for a pugilistic approach and argued for big changes in the government and a culling of cabinet ministers.
Those changes did not materialize, but the departure of Mr. Javid suggests that Mr. Cummings retains significant clout. The new cabinet is scheduled to meet for the first time on Friday but, as Mr. Johnson put the finishing touches to his new government, there were calls for a formal inquiry into his recent vacation. 
Although he declared accepting hospitality worth £15,000 — almost $20,000 — it remains unclear who actually paid for it. 
A businessman, David Ross, says he “facilitated accommodation” for Mr. Johnson on the island of Mustique valued at £15,000 — a formulation that could suggest that the vacation villa was part of a time-share facility, but one that left critics unimpressed.
“The public deserves to know who is paying for their prime minister’s jaunts,” said the Labour lawmaker Jon Trickett.