
This four-bedroom, three-bathroom 
The 4,305-square-foot, semidetached house, called Péiteschhaus, sits on a 0.14-acre lot, with four stories and a full vaulted basement. The birthplace of the 19th-century physicist Michel Gloesener, it was made a national monument in 2009.
The current owner, a carpenter, completed a renovation of the formerly dilapidated home in 2019, aiming to preserve its period architecture while adding updates like a conservatory, swimming pool, sauna and four-car garage, said Christophe Muller, the director of sales at Luxembourg Sotheby’s International Realty, which has the listing.
In Luxembourg, a small Western European nation with three official languages — French, German and Luxembourgish — “there is a drive to save the country’s heritage,” Mr. Muller said. “The renovation has been realized in very close relationship with the Service des Sites et Monuments.”
The home’s original layout was retained, as were most of the three-foot-thick limestone walls, oak floors, wide ceiling beams and handmade tiles, Mr. Muller said. The original wood doors and murals were also restored.
The front door opens to a long hallway decorated with murals and paved in restored checkered tile. An alcove off the hall contains a wood staircase and a wood-burning fireplace, in a traditional location for heating upper floors, Mr. Muller said. Also off the hallway is a living room, along with an interconnected dining room and kitchen. The kitchen has built-in appliances, cabinets made of beech and oak, and Corian counters. The dining room has an unusual curved table made of wood native to Luxembourg, as well as sliding doors to the backyard. (The furniture is not included in the asking price, but is negotiable, Mr. Muller said.)
A conservatory with several seating areas is off the kitchen and opens to the backyard, which has a sun deck, swimming pool and sauna.
The second floor has two large bedrooms, each with an en suite bathroom and walk-in closet. The bathrooms have hardwood floors, stand-alone tubs and large, glass-walled showers.
The third and fourth floors contain a separate apartment. The third floor has an area that could be used as a living room or bedroom, as well as a fully equipped open kitchen and a bathroom. The floor on the fourth level is glass overlaid on original wood ceiling beams that have been painted white and supported by an iron structure. This space could serve as a bedroom or living room, Mr. Muller said.
The town of Hautcharage, with about 1,760 residents, is in the southwestern Luxembourg commune of Käerjeng — three miles east of Belgium, six miles north of France and 25 miles west of Germany. Käerjeng has many schools, supermarkets, bakeries and other resources, along with a 35-mile bicycle path, several parks and sports fields. The commune is home to Luxembourg’s largest brewery, Brasserie Nationale, as well as an industrial zone. Luxembourg City, a 25-minute drive east, has about 120,000 residents and houses several European Union headquarters, including the European Court of Justice. Luxembourg Airport is 30 minutes east.
Luxembourg — officially the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg — is a landlocked country with more than 600,000 residents, an increase from about 360,000 in 1980. It has had a strong real estate market for four decades, largely thanks to citizens of other countries.
With its business-friendly banking laws and low taxes, Luxembourg has long attracted foreign companies and their employees, particularly tech start-ups and financial companies. It is also home to Amazon’s European headquarters. (In 2014, 
Last year was especially robust, said Harald-Sven Sontag, a real estate agent with RE/MAX Forum. “The economic and political instability of other countries in Europe — France with yellow vests and high level of taxation, Belgium still without government, the U.K. with Brexit — or elsewhere attracts more institutional and private investors to Luxembourg,” Mr. Sontag said.
A national tax-reform measure passed in 2017, which increased mortgage deductions and reduced capital-gains taxes, set off a wave of housing market activity that continues in 2020. In addition, low interest rates are spurring real estate investment, helping to push down supply and lift prices, said Jean-Jacques Michaux, a partner at House Brokers Real Estate, in Luxembourg City.
“With interest rates remaining so low, people — private Luxembourgers, but also big international investment funds — have turned massively into real estate investments, both residential and retail,” Mr. Michaux said.
All of that investment, along with a dearth of buildable land in the capital city, has created a housing shortage, despite new developments.
“During the last five years, 15,000 people have moved to Luxembourg every year because of a very strong economy,” said Jean-Marc Ueberecken, the managing partner at Arendt & Medernach, a Luxembourg law firm that handles real estate transactions. “We build housing for about 8,000 people every year. As a result, the gap between demand and offer increases each year, leading to a spike in housing prices.”
Prices in Luxembourg rose by 11.4 percent from the second quarter of 2018 to the second quarter of 2019, according to Luxembourg’s 
Concerns that Britain’s exit from the European Union would dampen the housing market have so far proved unfounded. Instead, Brexit seems to have accelerated the influx of foreign workers to the financial sector, further depleting housing supply and convincing some Luxembourg natives to consider buying elsewhere.
“What we do observe is, on the one hand, a lot of Luxembourgish people still being able to buy expensive homes, but more and more outside the center,” Mr. Michaux said. “On the other hand, more and more Luxembourgers are building their homes in neighboring countries, especially in Germany.”
Mr. Sontag said that many employees working in Luxembourg choose to live in neighboring regions in France, Germany or Belgium, estimating that there are about 200,000 cross-border commuters.
In much of Luxembourg City, prices are now eclipsing 10,000 euros a square meter ($1,051 a square foot), he said, adding that it is very difficult to find a house in the capital, even a small one, for under 1 million euros ($1.14 million).
Those who look in towns outside the city, like Hautcharage, “can get more for their money,” Mr. Muller said. “On average, a house outside the city will cost 30 percent less, depending on the region.”
Luxembourg’s foreign residents come from some 170 countries, but most are European Union citizens, Mr. Sontag said.
Many are from the neighboring countries of France, Germany and Belgium, Mr. Muller said, although he added that he also has seen buyers from Azerbaijan, Uzbekistan, India and Pakistan.
Foreigners in Luxembourg often rent a property for a couple of years before buying, Mr. Muller said: “The real estate market in Luxembourg is very dynamic. In the prime areas in and close to the city of Luxembourg, properties are very often sold in three days. This situation makes it difficult for people that are not yet installed in Luxembourg.”
There are no restrictions on foreign buyers in Luxembourg. All transactions are handled by a notary, so it isn’t necessary to hire a lawyer, Mr. Sontag said. Typical lawyer’s fees can run from 200 to 500 euros ($228 to $570) an hour, he said.
Closing costs include a registration tax of 7 percent, as well as the notary’s fee, which can run from 3,000 to 7,000 euros (about $3,425 to $8,000), Mr. Muller said.
Real estate agents typically collect a commission of about 3 percent of the home’s value from the seller, Mr. Michaux said.
Mortgages are available to foreigners, although Mr. Michaux observed that international buyers are now more often paying with cash.
Luxembourg tourism: 
Luxembourg government: 
National Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies: 
Luxembourgish, French and German; euro (1 euro = $1.14)
The annual property taxes on this home are around 300 euros (about $345), Mr. Muller said.
Christophe Muller, Luxembourg Sotheby’s International Realty, 011-35-220-1919; 
For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, 