
Good morning.
We’re reporting from the epicenter of the 
The coronavirus outbreak that began in Wuhan, China, is on track to become a global pandemic, 
We also have an in-depth report from Wuhan on how Chinese officials 
In a speech today, Prime Minister Boris Johnson of Britain is expected to say that Britain will “prosper” even if it can’t negotiate its preferred terms for a trade deal with the European Union.
Mr. Johnson has called Britain’s 
As the Republican-controlled Senate 
The first test comes today, when 
Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont 
Around 90 percent of the firefighters battling this season’s blazes in Australia are volunteers, a ratio unmatched in any other developed country where wildfires rage.
Climate change is now making Australia even more combustible and deadly, and 11 firefighters have died so far this season. Some volunteer firefighters now want compensation, professional training and better equipment — changes that could help modernize a decades-old strategy.
Yet for individuals on the front lines, 
The billionaire Leslie Wexner bought Victoria’s Secret in 1982, and turned it into a lingerie powerhouse with annual fashion shows that became a global cultural phenomenon.
But the company was hiding something: a
And the man who managed Mr. Wexner’s multibillion-dollar fortune? The sex criminal Jeffrey Epstein, who lured some young women by posing as a Victoria’s Secret recruiter.
The yearslong exit from the European Union happened at midnight Friday in Brussels, 11 p.m. in Britain itself. (Because, of course, they’re in different time zones.)
Our London correspondent 
Alcohol was banned in Parliament Square for the big celebration, but vendors brought in beer. “They couldn’t do without it,” Ben said.
The immediate difference? “Britain no longer has representation or say in the machinery of the European Union.”
Many other aspects of the departure remain, to be resolved (or not) during a transition period that will end when 2020 does. Prime Minister Boris Johnson has already signaled a tough stand for trade talks that will begin in March.
Ben noted that even hopes to have the moment marked by a bong from Big Ben (no relation) were dashed. Westminster’s famed four-faced clock is under renovation, and speeding the process up to allow the bell to sound 
So a recording of Big Ben was played outside, and inside 10 Downing Street, 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Mike