
Good morning.
We’re covering 
When the sun rises over Britain on Saturday, the country will no longer be part of the European Union.
The issue of whether to stay or leave has already divided British families, cast a shadow over businesses and paralyzed the government, 
But for now, Mark writes, the prevailing emotion in the United Kingdom is a characteristically British reflex: Get on with it.
Nobody has died from the Wuhan coronavirus outside mainland China, where the death toll rose today to 213. Yet more than a dozen countries are 
Some responses to the virus, which has 
President Trump’s impeachment trial may end as soon as today — but only if Republicans can 
As of late Thursday, they appeared to have the margin they’d need, although Democrats were hinting at a last-minute gambit to frustrate their plans. 
Above, 
President Emmanuel Macron’s En Marche party declined to make the mathematician Cédric Villani its candidate for the Parisian mayoral election in March.
But Dr. Villani, above center, 
“Politics is where rationality and irrationality meet,” said Dr. Villani, a deputy in the country’s National Assembly. “As well as passion.”
It’s an event that transcends the sport. The N.F.L. has been brilliant in turning it into a spectacle, and there’s nothing like it. That’s partly because of how the league has structured it — one final game, winner takes all, in a neutral city, on the first Sunday of February, every year. Other sports don’t have the same permanency.
Often when there’s an injury timeout, they go to commercial. I’ll be able to see doctors tending to players, including a neuro-trauma consultant who is on the sidelines (and wears a red hat). If you see the consultant get involved, it means someone has had a concussion.
It’s a collision sport at heart, and if you don’t want see it, turn on something else. If you can’t reconcile that violence, and it is violence, then there are many other sports. I think it’s O.K. to watch it and have misgivings. It’s human nature — you can both admire and be horrified by the same thing.
That’s it for this briefing. Have a great weekend.
— Mike