
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering 
President Vladimir Putin of Russia on Wednesday 
Mr. Putin, 67, has already been president or prime minister for 20 years, and Russia’s Constitution requires him to step down after his current term ends in 2024. Most Russians expected Mr. Putin, a former K.G.B. spy, to stay in power anyway; the question was how he would justify it.
As Iran heads for a possible military escalation with the United States, the leaders of Britain, France and Germany are using risky tactics to prevent Tehran from developing a nuclear bomb, 
The three European countries on Tuesday 
But the move has angered Tehran, which considers its breaches a justified response to sanctions that the Trump administration imposed after withdrawing from the deal. And Washington seems eager to sanction Iran even further.
President Trump 
But critics said that many key issues had been left unresolved, and that getting China to comply could be hard. 
As Prince Harry and his wife, Meghan, push for greater independence from the royal family, the British public’s split reaction 
Young people and liberals, who mostly voted to remain in the E.U., see Harry and Meghan as a modern couple escaping a vindictive tabloid press and a cloistered royal existence. But older people and conservatives, who make up the majority of Brexit “Leavers,” see the couple as wanting the perks of royalty without its responsibilities.
Mohammed bin Zayed, 
M.B.Z., as he is widely known, is a socially liberal autocrat who has meddled in Egypt, Libya, Somalia and Yemen. Some see him as a dangerous rogue actor, but others respect his intuitions about the dangers of political Islam writ large.
Just as tinsel and Christmas lights signal the start of festive seasons in Europe and North America, the mass delivery of potted kumquat trees is a sign that Lunar New Year is coming to East Asia.
The timing of the holiday, 
Kumquat trees, which have bright orange fruits and 
Seeing Hong Kong’s kumquats before this year’s Lunar New Year, which falls on Jan. 25, reminded your Back Story writer of living in Vietnam, where swarms of motorbike drivers deliver the trees through city streets.
The visual of moving tapestries of orange orbs resembles a citrusy variation on “
That’s it for this briefing. Wishing you good fortune.
— Mike and Sofia