
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering the final moments 
Britain and the European Union appeared on the cusp of 
Negotiators were scrambling to finish their talks in part to avoid the danger that the deal might not be adopted in time for Jan. 1. Without a deal in place, Britain and the European Union would default to trading under World Trade Organization rules, levying tariffs on each other’s goods.
Similar restrictions are in place 
In the U.S., where 
Here are 
The British government on Wednesday 
The Vatican said that 
The Trump administration and Pfizer 
Switzerland 
For years, police officers in the West African nation of Nigeria have 
Some — among them human rights group, lawyers and pastors — have sensed a business opportunity in these disappearances, wringing money from desperate families who often have already paid large bribes to the police.
A one-man aid organization. A teacher’s door-to-door hugging operation. And about 2,000 house calls to feed and care for hundreds of cats and a rabbit.
We asked our correspondents around the world to share 
“What I’m after is a sense of calm. It’s all about long lines. Baroque ornamentation is fun, but here, it’s about taking time and not doing anything too flashy.” —
“By the time you’re ready to sing, you almost can’t contain your excitement. It’s like you’re addressing a friend who’s been grieving and maybe has been home alone for a while, and you come over and say, OK, get your coat on, we’re going to have a great time: ‘Get thee up into the high mountains!’” 
“The music sounds like skipping through a meadow. I don’t know how you can say the words ‘rejoice greatly’ without smiling. But the challenge is how to make the joy last so it doesn’t feel false or overdone.” 
“It’s a joy to sing those lines in one breath, to heighten the drama and really cinch these incredibly long phrases together. … It’s the greatest moment onstage to be able to say to the audience: This is for you and this is 
That’s it for this briefing. Have a peaceful Thursday.
— Natasha