
Good morning.
We’re covering China’s latest move to contain a 
The authorities in China are taking an unsubtle approach to containing the pneumonia-like virus that originated in the city of Wuhan: essentially 
Wuhan, population 11 million, is a hub for industry, commerce and transport in central China. But as of today, flights and trains out of the city are canceled, and bus, subway and ferry services within it are suspended.
The restrictions, which don’t yet have an end date, are intended to stop 
Italy’s political system faces another potential U-turn: The leader of the anti-establishment Five Star Movement has resigned, raising the prospect that the hard-right politician Matteo Salvini 
The Five Star leader who quit on Wednesday, Luigi Di Maio, 
A bill that 
The bill’s smooth ride marks a departure from the yearslong Brexit drama and acrimony that gripped British politics before Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s landslide election victory last month.
President Trump’s impeachment trial is keeping some of his top Democratic rivals for the presidency glued to their chairs in the Senate chamber — 
The six-day-a-week trial, in which House Democrats 
The upshot? Two candidates who aren’t senators, 
When the Moroccan immigrants Ali and Amar Sitayeb, above, opened a convenience mart in Paris’s historic Jewish quarter, the neighborhood still had plenty of textile and metal factories.
That was 1984. Today, their store in the Marais is just one of many independent shops being 
“How is a bra going to replace my orange juice?” asked a retiree who has lived next to the shop for two decades.
Walking the streets, you definitely feel a sense of urgency is spreading. Lots of people are now wearing masks and avoiding big crowds. All of this is happening in the midst of the Lunar New Year holiday, so it has forced many families to rethink their plans. People are canceling dinners, staying home from work and hunkering down.
Yes, it’s almost impossible to avoid crowds in a modern Chinese city. But Wuhan is trying to push people to take more precautions. When you get in a cab now, there are reminders about opening the window and wearing a mask. Some of the famous street markets are now totally empty, surrounded by signs warning about the virus.
Several people told me about their memories of the SARS crisis of 2003, which killed hundreds of people in China. They’re worried this could erupt into a full-blown epidemic. Of course, others say they’re not very concerned and have faith that China can beat this. One common theme is people say they want the Chinese government to speak honestly about the severity of the outbreak — something that didn’t happen during SARS.
Yes, at the advice of experts, my colleague Elsie Chen and I are washing our hands regularly and avoiding meat markets and hospital wards. We are wearing masks all the time. It’s a bit odd having that kind of barrier when you’re interviewing people on the street. But we’ve found that it is quickly becoming the norm in Wuhan. There are even videos now circulating of people giving New Year’s toasts with their masks on!
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Mike and Sofia