
Good morning.
We’re covering the results of 
After months of surging coronavirus cases and lockdown after lockdown, the world got a glimmer of good news on Monday. Pfizer 
The United Kingdom 
Here are 
President-elect Joe Biden announced 
President Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine said he had tested positive for the coronavirus. “It’s gonna be fine!” he 
Hungary and Portugal are 
Prime Minister Boris Johnson of the United Kingdom is 
Joe Biden’s victory in the presidential election may further strain the U.K.’s negotiations with Brussels. More failure would almost certainly reverberate badly in Ireland. Mr. Biden, who speaks often and fondly of his Irish roots, 
Mr. Johnson is on unsteady footing: Mr. Biden opposed Brexit, is unlikely to prioritize a trade deal with London and has ruled out such a deal altogether if Britain does anything to water down the protections of Northern Ireland that are enshrined in the withdrawal agreement. Mr. Johnson now must balance his determination to pressure Brussels with his desire not to antagonize Mr. Biden.
Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan of Armenia yesterday 
While three earlier cease-fires have collapsed, this agreement suggests a more permanent, sweeping redrawing of the security map of the southern Caucasus, a volatile region wedged between Turkey, Russia and Iran. The settlement sealed a role in the region for an increasingly assertive Turkey, a supporter of Azerbaijan in the war, which began in September.
Within hours of the announcement, protests had erupted in Yerevan, Armenia’s capital. A crowd broke into the main government building and ripped Mr. Pashinyan’s nameplate off the door of the prime minister’s office, according to footage from Russian television news.
President-elect Joe Biden says he will re-enter the Iran nuclear deal, renew a nuclear arms treaty with Russia and double down on American commitments to NATO, moving quickly to 
But the world looks different now. Power vacuums have been created, and filled, often by China. Democracies have retreated. Although foreign allies may find Mr. Biden reassuring, they also concede that they may never fully trust that the U.S. won’t go back to building walls and making cooperation with allies an afterthought.
President-elect Joe Biden’s transition team has announced four priorities for his administration: Covid-19, economic recovery, racial equity and climate change. Our DealBook reporters outlined 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time. 
— Natasha