
Good morning.
We’re covering a 
Some residential compounds in Beijing were under lockdown on Monday and tens of thousands were tested for the coronavirus as the government 
The outbreak has jolted China, after President Xi Jinping had said that Beijing should be a fortress against the pandemic. It pointed to challenges that governments worldwide will face as they reopen economies.
Disease experts said limited bursts of infections were likely to become part of the “new normal” for China. Still, it led to the firing of two local officials and the manager of the food market.
Here are the 
The Times is providing free access to 
Europe’s internal borders, closed three months ago, 
France, Germany and Switzerland were among the nations that welcomed arrivals from the European Union on Monday — joining Italy, Belgium and other countries in a new phase of balancing public health, economic realities and public frustrations.
The Oscars will be 
According to a new study, roughly 1.7 billion people around the world — 22 percent of the global population — have at least one of the underlying health conditions that 
Gov. Andrew Cuomo of New York warned that lax adherence to social-distancing rules meant to contain the coronavirus 
Officials across the U.S. announced major police reforms on Monday, further galvanizing a protest movement that has led to a nationwide reckoning over systemic racism. Follow 
In his first direct talks with European Union leaders about Brexit since Britain left the European Union, 
“The faster we can do this, the better,” Mr. Johnson said. Negotiations have been at an impasse during the pandemic, and both sides agreed to intensify talks in July and August.
It would probably be worse for Britain, which sends more than 40 percent of its exports to the European Union and gets more than 50 percent of its imports from the bloc.
As the coronavirus batters Russia, migrant workers from Central Asia have been hit especially hard — first losing their jobs, then often being refused medical care if they became ill. Now, they are unable to return home because of a reduction in flights. Above, migrants from Central Asia in cramped housing in Moscow.
Despite the country’s reliance on them, the crisis has highlighted 
Frances Cha’s novel “If I Had Your Face” is an unflinching look at how four young women pursue their dreams and ambitions in Seoul. Ms. Cha confronts South Korea’s social norms, including its impossibly high beauty standards. Here’s 
I wanted to write about the people I encountered every day in Korea. I have read “The Joy Luck Club”
Filial piety — “hyo” in Korean — is the age-old historical and traditional virtue of deep respect and support and love toward one’s parents and elders. To say “he is a hyo-ja” or “she is a hyo-nyeo” means someone is a good son or daughter, exhibiting and living by respect that is born of gratitude to your parents. I know many friends of my parents have lived with their in-laws for many decades, supporting and providing for them, despite the fact that these relationships are often strained.
When I tell people I’m Korean, people always ask if I’ve had plastic surgery. Plastic surgery runs very counter to American and Western ideas about remaining true to yourself — that you shouldn’t have to change anything about yourself because of anyone’s judgment.
But in South Korea, there are very real and practical reasons people have plastic surgery. I ask readers to reserve their judgment on that. The reality in 21st-century South Korea is how you look does matter, especially if you don’t come from wealth and status. Until recently, job applicants had to submit a photo with their job application.
That’s it for this briefing. Here are some thoughts on 
Isabella