
Two new books explore what elevated Winston Churchill to prominence and the shadows he continues to cast on British and American political culture. As the Brexit debate showed, he remains an irresistible force.
Because he was a politician who switched parties through his long political career, both sides of that debate were able to disinter Churchill to bolster their arguments. Steven Fielding, Bill Schwarz and Richard Toye, the authors of “The Churchill Myths,” recount that the Leavers emphasized his willingness to stand alone, obdurate in doing what Britain needed, while the Remainers argued that “alone was never Churchill’s hope or wish: It was his fear.”
In his own book, “Winston Churchill: A Life in the News,” Toye makes the fundamental claim that “Churchill would surely have had a political career in any age; but it was only the late-19th- and 20th-century media that made possible the type of political career he wanted to have.” Toye, a professor of history at the University of Exeter, argues that because Churchill bestrode an age deferential to “the right of the authorities to shape coverage” and focus on elite (rather than mass public) opinion, he was preternaturally effective in the first half of the 20th century. But once the news media democratized and television became widely available, Churchill lost the ability to control the narrative and therefore to remain in power.
Still, there are other explanations that Toye might have considered along with the role of the media. The trajectory he describes for Churchill — hit-or-miss exploration, mastery of the political moment, eventual loss of zeitgeist — is normal for every political career. What’s more, Churchill made the mistake of continuing to give priority to international affairs after the war, when that was no longer the public preoccupation. There was also the question of simple aging: Churchill stayed in politics longer than his abilities warranted (which perhaps tells us something about the dearth of alternatives at the time).
Even with regard to the news media, Toye doesn’t really establish how Churchill’s career was affected by the evolution of the modern press in a way that was different from those of other public figures. Toye catches Churchill colluding with publishers, shifting his views to gain an advantage, currying favor with colleagues and journalists, then conspiring against them, and obsessing about the coverage of the war effort. But as Toye acknowledges, others also worked the press. He writes that military leaders “intrigued with parts of the press to destabilize or frustrate the elected politicians whom many of them essentially despised,” and that 
In the end, Toye does not persuade us that Churchill was more a creature of his era’s journalism than other politicians were, or that he would have struggled in our more diffuse and polarized media environment. In fact, in his other work, Toye demonstrates that, even dead, Churchill continues to shape our political landscape.
That, broadly, is the subject of “The Churchill Myths.” Toye, along with Steven Fielding, a professor of political history at the University of Nottingham, and Bill Schwarz, a professor of modern history and literature at Queen Mary University of London, examines myth as “a live theater for popular feeling, creating new ways in which the past is lived in the present.” The three authors show Churchill being enlisted by the Spice Girls and the U.K. Independence Party; analyze the 2018 movie “Darkest Hour”; discuss at length Boris Johnson’s attempt to recast Churchill as an earlier embodiment of Boris Johnson; and note that British culture clung ever more tightly to Churchill during the sunset of Britain’s international prominence. They denigrate the work of eminent historians like 
The authors argue that the “mythic Churchill” — a “symbolic system in which the story culminates in the capacity 
While the authors argue that their analysis “carries no intrinsic value judgments,” and disavow any political motives, both these claims are belied by their own words. What Churchill “has come to represent,” they say, “has transmogrified into a deeper, more troubling and darker phenomenon in which the past weighs unforgivingly on the present.” They believe “today’s Churchill is mobilized from the grave by those who feel that — somewhere, sometime — they surrendered their historical patrimony.”
Both books attempt to debunk the “great man” theory of history, which the authors of “The Churchill Myths” describe as “Caesarism,” and they feel the need to state that “Churchill never, personally, won the war” — something not even his most ardent defenders claim. For the authors, World War II was a bottom-up “people’s war.”
Fielding, Schwarz and Toye make only passing reference to Charles de Gaulle. But the comparison merits closer examination because both men became the political reference point for their respective nations by personifying their peoples’ determination, their preferred vision of themselves.
World War I’s pointless bloodletting weighed heavily on Britain in the 1920s and ’30s, and Churchill was directly implicated in it as first lord of the Admiralty. Then, as chancellor of the Exchequer from 1924 to 1929, he allowed economic considerations to slow the Royal Air Force development program. He was an improbable prime minister for confronting Hitler. And yet he became the banner around which the British people rallied. It was leadership, not merely journalism, that allowed him to say: “We ought to rejoice at the responsibilities with which destiny has honored us, and be proud that we are guardians of our country in an age when her life is at stake.”
Faced with the possible German destruction of the Royal Air Force’s bases in 1940, Churchill overruled his military command and drew Wehrmacht attacks to British cities. He describes in his memoirs “a sense of relief” when Hitler took the bait. That is, he was willing to sacrifice civilian lives to preserve the military force on which Britain’s freedom relied, and he was confident that British morale could withstand the assaults. Shouldering the responsibility of that decision while sustaining public support was the act of a great statesman — and that, rather than the journalism of the late 19th and 20th century, is what made his mythic stature possible.
During protests this June, Winston Churchill’s statue in London’s Parliament Square was defaced with graffiti under his name calling him a “racist.” It prompted 
The authors of “The Churchill Myths” argue that “a diverse Britain now has a diversity of Churchills.” But we ought to be able to appreciate that a singular Churchill was both an unapologetic imperialist, with all the racist attitudes that entailed, and also a great statesman, a leader against whom all subsequent British politicians are measured. As George Eliot once warned, “The important work of moving the world forward does not wait to be done by perfect men.”