
Good morning.
We’re covering the start of 
From nursing homes in France to hospitals in Poland, older Europeans and the workers who care for them rolled up their sleeves on Sunday to receive coronavirus vaccine shots. 
The 
Here are the 
Millions of Americans 
Canada, France, Japan, Spain, Sweden and Norway have found small numbers of infections involving a new, potentially 
A tide of 
U.S. case numbers are about as high as they have ever been. Total infections have 
During the lockdown in Wuhan, China, Zhang Zhan posted videos, like one of hospital hallways lined with patients hooked up to oxygen tanks or of a community health center for testing.
She abruptly stopped posting in May, and the police later revealed that she had been arrested, accused of spreading lies. Today, 
Ms. Zhang, a 37-year-old former lawyer, embodied the Chinese people’s hunger for unfiltered information about the epidemic. Three other citizen journalists have disappeared from Wuhan.
The Trump administration invested in its relationship with India as a way to counterbalance the rise of China. Some experts believe that the U.S. under Joe Biden’s presidency cannot afford to drastically alter that policy.
Mr. Biden’s administration will inherit a growing military relationship with India. Most experts agree that China will be the driving force behind 
Most of the men from Qala-e-Biwaha, a village in western Afghanistan, have disappeared — killed while trying to smuggle opium into neighboring Iran. Their widows have been left to fend for themselves and their children, some of whom have also died while transporting drugs over the border.
Our correspondents report on 
Our 
It’s unusual for The Times to collect data for a project like this. We usually build charts and other graphics with the data given to us by outside experts. But the data we wanted didn’t exist. We started talking to researchers, who patiently helped us to think about the best way to gather the information and understand how we might go wrong.
We partnered with Adithi Upadhya and Meenakshi Kushwaha, pollution researchers with ILK Labs in Bangalore, who have experience measuring pollution in India using lower-cost sensors like the ones we wanted to use.
We settled on using a portable pollution monitor, the Airbeam 2 by HabitatMap, along with custom software running on a tiny Raspberry Pi computer, to take exposure measurements of Monu and Aamya every five seconds. Meenakshi and Adithi also volunteered more specialized equipment from their lab.
After our reporting, Adithi and Meenakshi helped us analyze the data. The results were striking: Over the course of the day, Monu was exposed to about four times as much pollution as Aamya. Although precise estimates are impossible to make, a long-term, consistent disparity like that could steal around five years more life from someone in Monu’s position, compared with an upper-middle-class child like Aamya.
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Carole