
LONDON — Karen Pierce, a senior career diplomat, will become Britain’s next ambassador to the United States, inheriting the tricky task of strengthening the country’s somewhat frayed “special relationship” with Washington at a time when London is at odds with Washington over several critical policies.
Ms. Pierce, the first woman to be chosen for the new role, is currently Britain’s permanent representative to the United Nations. She will succeed Kim Darroch, who resigned last year after the leak of diplomatic cables revealed he had characterized the Trump administration
President Trump responded by describing Mr. Darroch as “wacky,” a “very stupid guy” and a “pompous fool,” while adding that Theresa May, who was prime minister at the time, was “foolish” for ignoring his advice on Britain’s exit from the European Union.
When Boris Johnson took over from Mrs. May last year, he basked in warm praise from Mr. Trump, who supports the new government’s full-throated commitment to Brexit. And having left the European Union last month, Britain wants to strike a free-trade agreement with the United States as soon as possible.
But just days after Britain’s official exit from the bloc, 
As it announced the appointment of Ms. Pierce on Friday, Downing Street also refused to comment on 
Huawei is not the only contentious issue threatening the British-American relationship. British diplomats are also fretting over differences with Washington over Britain’s plans for a digital services tax that would hit large American corporations like Google and Amazon, and its policy toward Iran.
While London has said positive things about Mr. Trump’s peace initiative for the Middle East, its Iran policy is in line with that of France and Germany, which, against mounting odds, want to keep alive the nuclear deal that Iran signed during the Obama years.
Mr. Trump is unpopular with much of the British public, so Mr. Johnson has tried to cultivate the president personally while not being seen as bending to his wishes.
Against this backdrop, Ms. Pierce, who has served as Britain’s top diplomat at the United Nations, the World Trade Organization and in Afghanistan, will have the job of trying to smooth trade negotiations with the United States.
Ms. Pierce said she was “honored” to be offered the position, adding that the trans-Atlantic link was Britain’s single most important bilateral relationship.
“There is a deep bond between Britain and the US, built on many pillars,” she said in a statement, adding that she looked forward to working with colleagues “to strengthen and even further deepen the special relationship between our two countries and peoples.”
Britain’s foreign secretary, Dominic Raab, said in a statement, “It is a time of huge opportunity for the friendship between the U.K. and U.S., and I am delighted that Karen Pierce will take forward this exciting new chapter in our relationship.”
“We’re proud to be sending to Washington such an outstanding diplomat, and I warmly congratulate her on her appointment,” he added.
Ms. Pierce will assume her new role once diplomatic formalities have been concluded.
She will not find trade talks between Britain and the United States easy going, however. Many Britons are opposed to importing American food, fretting about chlorinated chicken, hormone-fed cows and standards of humane treatment. Others worry about giving American pharmaceutical firms the right to sell drugs in Britain at market prices, rather than the reduced prices now negotiated by the National Health Service.
But without some concessions on issues like these, it is hard to see the United States agreeing to any substantial trade deal, let alone getting it through Congress — a point made sharply by Mr. Darroch in his
In any event, the appointment of Ms. Pierce will be a relief to many British diplomats because there had been pressure on Mr. Johnson to appoint a politician to represent him in Washington.
Usually, British ambassadors are drawn from the ranks of career professionals, but some political appointments have been made in the past. In 2016, Mr. Trump suggested that his ally, Nigel Farage, the Brexit campaigner, 
That was never likely to happen. British officials, however, will also have noticed that Mr. Farage still appears to have influence in the White House, perhaps more than some of them.
This week, he wrote on Twitter that he had held a “great meeting” with the president in the Oval Office. It came during the period that Mr. Trump was acquitted by the Senate in his impeachment trial.
Michael Wolgelenter contributed reporting.