
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering clashes in 
President Aleksandr Lukashenko, who is facing the biggest outpouring of dissent during his 26 years of autocratic rule, was on course Sunday to win a sixth term in office, in an election his critics dismissed as rigged.
According to a government-sponsored exit poll released after voting ended, Mr. Lukashenko won just under 80 percent of the vote against four rivals, avoiding a runoff vote.
Often called “
Demonstrators and security forces 
By nightfall, protesters had stormed three government ministries, a handful of legislators had resigned and the prime minister had called for early elections. It was a sign that the crisis could shake up Lebanon’s political system, widely derided as dysfunctional. Lebanon was already grappling with a sinking economy and soaring inflation and unemployment, as well as a surge in coronavirus cases. 
In an effort led by President Emmanuel Macron of France and the United Nations, over 30 international leaders and governments 
Six months after Britain broke away from the European Union, Prime Minister Boris Johnson is 
On Friday, Mr. Johnson sent his popular Treasury chief, Rishi Sunak, to Scotland, to tamp down nationalist sentiment. There, Mr. Sunak noted that Scottish firms would get 2 billions pounds ($2.6 billion) in loans to survive the lockdown. Another top minister, Michael Gove, visited Northern Ireland with nearly $500 million in aid to help frustrated companies deal with new checks on shipped goods.
Experts have long predicted that Brexit would strengthen the forces pulling apart the U.K. But in Scotland, in particular, the pandemic has accelerated those forces. In an average of recent polls, 52.5 percent of people said they would vote for Scottish independence — a swing from the 2014 referendum, when 55.3 percent of Scots voted to stay in the U.K.
France is 
Clothing sales fell by 79 percent in the U.S. in April, the largest slump on record. But purchases of sweatpants were up by 80 percent.
Our reporter spent months looking at 
The 10 months I spent learning the basics of being a bomb squad technician in the early 2000s became an asset when the first videos emerged on Tuesday of the explosions on Beirut’s waterfront.
I watched and rewatched the videos for clues about what might have happened, texted buddies I’d served with and posted queries in a couple of Facebook groups that were open only to current and former bomb techs.
We observed footage of two separate events. The first was a fire with white smoke and small pop-pop-pop explosions, like firecrackers, going off in the blaze. The second was an explosion with an eruption of reddish-black smoke, sending a powerful shock wave through the city. While social media ran wild with speculation, we stuck to what we knew: analyzing explosives and measuring their destructive effects.
To gauge the expected blast and fragmentary effects of exploding munitions, we were trained to determine first which explosive material was present and then calculate its comparative weight in TNT to use as a common reference point. After that, the rest is simple math. But for ammonium nitrate, a fertilizer stored in bulk, there is no simple textbook answer.
There were multiple factors to consider — including how the fertilizer might have degraded after years in relatively open storage near the water and whether there were other compounds present that may have contributed to the blast — so I had to interpret them as best I could.
The 
My 40 percent figure seems to have held up, given the video evidence I’ve seen so far. In much smaller quantities, burning ammonium nitrate might not explode. But similar incidents around the world have shown that when thousands of tons of it catch fire in a contained environment, the additional heat and pressure can lead to a mass detonation.
That’s it for this briefing. Have a great start to the week. 
— Isabella