
LONDON — In his first major address since 
“It makes me angry that, just when the country needs leadership, we get serial incompetence,” he said in a speech on Tuesday at the Labour Party’s annual conference.
But even as he castigated Mr. Johnson and his government, Mr. Starmer acknowledged that the opposition had much work to do to win back supporters.
While his speech was brimming with a realignment of Labour’s priorities, Mr. Starmer was also blunt.
“Let’s be brutally honest with ourselves: When you lose an election in a democracy, you deserve to,” he said. “You don’t look at the electorate and ask them, ‘What were you thinking?’ You look at yourself and ask, ‘What are we doing?’”
He urged voters to “take another look at Labour” after the party saw the 
Laced with messages of patriotism and hope, Mr. Starmer’s speech made clear strides to distance him from his predecessor, Jeremy Corbyn, who led the party during the last general election.
“My vision for Britain is simple,” Mr. Starmer said. “I want this to be the best country to grow up in and the best country to grow old in, a country in which we put family first.”
It was also an opportunity to introduce himself to a broader audience as a former human rights lawyer who once served as the head of the Crown Prosecution Service and was 
Mr. Starmer’s speech came shortly before Mr. Johnson announced new measures to combat 
This month, the government introduced a six-person limit on gatherings, and on Monday, details emerged of 
Mr. Johnson said that the government would extend the requirement of wearing face masks and that businesses could now be fined if they breached coronavirus restrictions. He also said that the numbers allowed at social gatherings were to be cut and that the penalties for breaking the limits or for not wearing masks were to be doubled. Mr. Johnson said that the restrictions could last for six months.
Mr. Starmer said that forcing the country into a second national lockdown would be a reflection of Mr. Johnson’s failure to lead.
“The prime minister has had months to prepare for this, but instead of getting a grip, the government has lost control,” he said.
Mr. Johnson’s Conservative Party won a landslide victory in the December vote, a result that paved the way for Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union.
At the same time, Labour had its worst performance in more than 80 years under the leadership of Mr. Corbyn, who entered last year’s election with 
After the devastating loss, 
“We are under new leadership,” he said. “We love this country as much as you do. I want it to be the country I know it can be. That, in the end, is why I do this.”
Mr. Starmer’s speech was given in Doncaster, a former industrial town in South Yorkshire that is part of the largely working-class stretch of the Midlands and northern England long seen as Labour’s traditional base — 
“Never again will Labour take you or the things you care about for granted,” he said. “And I ask you, take another look at Labour.”
While British politics have been dominated for years by 
“The debate between Leave and Remain is over. We are not going to be a party that keeps banging on about Europe,” he said, referring to the two camps, noting that it was now up to Mr. Johnson to ensure a deal was reached with the bloc. “If he fails to get one, he will be failing Britain.”
While Mr. Starmer said that his party would be a “constructive opposition,” backing government measures where appropriate, he placed responsibility for the continuing issues in dealing with the spread of the coronavirus on Mr. Johnson’s government.
“With one of the highest death rates in the world on the threshold of one of the deepest recessions anywhere, I am afraid there is no doubt, this government’s incompetence is holding Britain back,” Mr. Starmer said.
He pointed to failures in the country’s ability to deal with the increased demand for coronavirus tests as children returned to school this month as a major failure. 
Mr. Starmer recalled the successes of past Labour governments, hoping to remind voters “what this party can achieve at its best.” He cited the National Health Service, the Equal Pay Act, and the national minimum wage among those successes.
Tellingly, the list of achievements also included the Good Friday Agreement, 
The agreement has 