
As of this writing, 2021 has already arrived in much of the world, from a New Zealand free of the coronavirus to an England in lockdown.
In most cities, there are no roaring crowds, no gatherings for fireworks shows and, let’s hope, no strangers kissing at midnight. But people around the world are still toasting the start of the New Year. 
In Australia, a fireworks show went on as usual. Big Ben, long silent while under renovation, chimed at midnight, as Britain left the European Union. The ball will still drop in Times Square.
Celebrating the New Year with kids? 
President Trump cut short his stay at his Mar-a-Lago club and returned with Melania Trump to the White House, as Senator Josh Hawley, a Republican from Missouri, tried to drum up support for a move to object to Congress’s certification of the Electoral College results next Wednesday.
Senator Ben Sasse of Nebraska became 
And on Friday, 20 states and 32 cities and counties will raise their minimum wage, which will 
An employee at a Wisconsin hospital was arrested after he 
And the variant of the virus first found in the U.K. could, by some estimates, be the predominant version of the virus in the U.S. by March. 
As the virus surged in the summer and fall, President Trump’s management of the crisis effectively focused on the single question of what it would mean for him. 
And while vaccinations have gotten off to a slow start, as they have in much of the nation, Mayor Bill de Blasio 
On a side note, 
As of midnight in Brussels (5 p.m. Eastern, 11 p.m. in London), Britain left the European Union’s single market and customs union.
And Scotland and Northern Ireland may opt to leave the United Kingdom and, by different means, rejoin the E.U.
The E.U. itself, by contrast, has in some ways been galvanized by the trauma of Brexit. The nations of Europe have seen up close that a divorce is always a defeat — and a negotiation whose end point is new barriers is, too.
When President Trump placed tariffs on more than $360 billion of Chinese goods beginning in 2018, thousands of U.S. companies successfully requested waivers excluding them from having to pay the levies.
Meanwhile, China’s astonishingly rapid reduction of rural poverty 
Nobody believes it was ET phoning, but radio astronomers admit they don’t have an explanation yet for the beam of radio waves, which apparently came from the direction of the star Proxima Centauri.
The team investigating the signal is part of the Breakthrough Listen project, which set off a boom in the search for extraterrestrial intelligence when it was announced in 2015 by Stephen Hawking and the Russian billionaire investor financing it.
The investigators had intended to keep the strange data to themselves until they figured it out, but The Guardian recently spilled the beans.
“So there’s nothing to see here, folks,” 
Newly freed from the office, middle-class millennials are seeking single-family homes in affordable “Zoom towns.” Both bicycles and puppies were in high demand, signaling America’s shift away from service spending toward goods.
And Ms. Swift’s surprise release of two albums offered at least a symbol of a macroeconomic productivity surge that techno optimists say is right around the corner.
For years, sleep experts have held one piece of common wisdom above all else: that devices have no place in the bedroom. But during the pandemic, 
In truth, those are just modern versions of the practices of some of history’s most accomplished figures. Edith Wharton, William Wordsworth and Marcel Proust drafted prose and verse from their beds.
“I am a completely horizontal author,” Truman Capote told The Paris Review in 1957. “I can’t think unless I’m lying down.”
We asked readers to send us photos and videos of positive moments in this pandemic year. 
You shared tearful reunions with grandparents, like the one above, and the tenderness that comes with experiencing great loss. The submissions show an appreciation for the experiences and connections that make life meaningful — a gratitude to take into the year ahead.
So thank you, and may the New Year bring you much more of the same.