
Drawing on what the White House said was 
He also pardoned the financier Michael Milken; 
In conversations with advisers, Mr. Trump has also raised the prospect of commuting whatever sentence gets handed down to his friend Roger Stone, but his only action on that front today was to 
For months, he has been muscling his way into the race, using deep coffers and an all-consuming blob of campaign infrastructure. But the 78-year-old billionaire won’t have that armor with him onstage, our reporter writes in an analysis, and could be a near-perfect foil for several of his competitors.
Elizabeth Warren, for her part, is 
HSBC, one of the most important banks in Hong Kong, said it plans to 
And U.S. stocks declined on Tuesday, a day after Apple warned that it would miss its sales forecasts because of disruption in China. 
An analysis of figures by the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention 
The Syrian government, backed by Russian forces, has accelerated its monthslong offensive to seize control of Idlib, the last province held by the opposition.
But Turkey closed its border in 2015, so the displaced people of Idlib are trapped between advancing Syrian and Russian troops and the Turkish border.
At stake are thousands of claims by people who have come forward with allegations that they were abused as scouts. Many more are expected to do so.
Under bankruptcy protection, the Boy Scouts gain the opportunity to have a judge approve a compensation plan. The group’s national chairman said the organization was still committed to compensating victims through a trust. A lawyer for the victims said he finds it “difficult to impossible” to envision the organization operating in a restructured form.
The vote was narrow, 46 to 37. The debate over unionizing — and whether such representation is appropriate for highly paid tech workers — has been a source of tension at the company for months.
The pro-union vote is significant for the tech industry. Tech workers have become increasingly activist in recent years, but large-scale unionization efforts have faltered.
His car edged into the lead on the final turn, crashed, flipped onto its roof and then was hit broadside by another car, sending Newman’s car skidding down the track in a shower of sparks and flames. He’s hospitalized, with injuries reported as serious but not life-threatening.
That question led some designers “not to the depths of despair, but somewhere else entirely,” writes Vanessa Friedman, our chief fashion critic, at 
Above, Burberry’s first looks.
British chefs are also wrapping their heads around the impact of Brexit. You may have never heard of Margot and Fergus Henderson, but the couple’s cooking, grounded in technique and tradition, helped put London on the map as a culinary destination.
Our Food reporter explores 
Bakers around the country have joined forces with Washington State University to make 
The loaf is something of a Trojan horse, a way to sneak healthy ingredients onto the taste buds of a younger generation.
And don’t forget your carrots, says our columnist Yotam Ottolenghi. 
Our Well team has developed a new, 
First up: Using your daily coffee or tea habit as an opportunity to practice mindfulness. Why? You’re more likely to form a new habit when you connect it with a habit you already have. Your reward: Day 28 comes with a chocolate meditation practice.
Have a robust yet peaceful night.