
LONDON — A huge 
As many as 6,000 trucks had lined up at the height of the days-long jam, and many drivers spent a bleak Christmas sleeping in their vehicles as France demanded that all those crossing the border show proof of a negative coronavirus test.
“It was shocking to see that in a G7 country like the U.K., that such things would happen,” said Benjamin Richtzenhain, a traveler who crossed the English Channel on Thursday. He said that the authorities had communicated poorly to those in the logjam and that access to water, bathrooms and blankets had been limited.
The misery at the port added to a 
A last-minute 
Even with the new restrictions around the world, the virus variant has 
By Saturday morning, officials from Britain’s transportation department said that about 1,600 vehicles remained in the traffic jam near the port while at least 8,000 had crossed the English Channel via the Eurotunnel since Wednesday, when the authorities ramped up testing.
At the port, officials worked intensively on Saturday to test the remaining drivers in hopes of clearing the backup. More than 15,526 have been tested, with 36 coming up positive, the department said.
Hundreds more military personnel were deployed on Friday to reinforce testing efforts and to distribute food and water provided by an array of organizations.
But almost a week after the blockages of sea, rail and air routes, the magnitude of the task made it impossible to predict when the delays would clear and whether drivers would spend yet another day in limbo and another night sleeping in their trucks.
Thousands of police officers, civilian testers, council planners and port workers gave up their Christmas to help reunite drivers with loved ones, said Grant Shapps, Britain’s transportation secretary, who praised their efforts.
London’s airports were fairly quiet on Saturday, with no signs of a rush to travel a day after the United States imposed new restrictions on people flying in from Britain. Starting on Monday, passengers to the United States must 
A spokesman for Heathrow Airport said that significant numbers of travelers were not expected on Saturday, and that the day after Christmas was typically a quiet travel day.