
Good morning.
We’re covering the race to control infections in 
As other countries prepare to roll out vaccinations, South Korea is grappling with its 
South Korea’s daily number of new cases was once as low as two per day. That number soared to​ 682 on Thursday, with health officials warning it could reach record highs in coming days. On Wednesday​, 686 new cases were reported, the highest daily count since Feb. 29.
And vaccines are not coming until March — which is when the first batch from companies like AstraZeneca and Pfizer is set to arrive. The country says it has secured enough to inoculate roughly 86 percent of the population. “We must exert all we can, considering this is our last hurdle” before vaccines and treatments, President Moon Jae-in said.
Here are 
A U.S. expert panel is expected to decide in the coming hours 
After last year’s catastrophic wildfires, the 
Evacuation orders were issued on Monday for a fire that has blackened roughly half of Fraser Island, an idyllic getaway north of Brisbane renowned for golden beaches and lush biodiversity.
It’s a brutal reminder to Australians that in their country, which is fire-prone and vulnerable to climate change, the risk of record-setting infernos never goes way — it only increases each year.
The Lebanese judge investigating the huge explosion in the port of Beirut 
The judge, Fadi Sawan, filed new charges of neglect and carelessness against the four men and plans to question them as suspects next week.
Tens of thousands of Ethiopians have sought safety in Sudan after Ethiopia’s prime minister declared war on the Tigray region. In their accounts to Times journalists, the Tigrayans described being caught between 
“I didn’t expect in our life that our government would kill us,” said Ashenafi Hailu, 24, who was nearly killed by a group of militia members. “I am frightened so much. I am not sleeping at night.”
Lawsuits like this might take years to resolve. Anything dramatic — like a government-imposed rewinding of the WhatsApp and Instagram acquisitions — might not happen for years, if ever. Your experience with Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp or Messenger won’t suddenly be different tomorrow.
Some government officials had tough words for Facebook. But they left off one important point: They are suing Facebook only after years of their failures to restrain its power and because there is now political will to do so.
What’s changing now is that elected officials and other people in government are united in their hatred of America’s tech superpowers and more willing to do unusual things to address concerns over the “same bubbly caldron of concerns over the power and consumer harms of the biggest tech companies,” Cecilia Kang, our technology reporter, told me.
It is possible that Google, Facebook, Amazon, Apple or even Microsoft could alter their behavior because they’re bogged down by court cases or worried about looking like bullies. Companies fearful of unwanted scrutiny could also change things we like about their products and services.
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Melina