
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering 
Aleksei A. Navalny, the poisoned Russian opposition leader who is recuperating in Germany, has told a German prosecutor that 
Further tests have confirmed that the substance used to 
The 
Growth in the Group of 20 nations (which account for 80 percent of the world’s economic production) fell by a record 6.9 percent from April to June compared with the previous three months. The biggest growth declines were in India (minus 25.2 percent) and Britain (minus 20.4 percent), while growth in Europe shrank by nearly 15 percent.
The O.E.C.D. warned that the global economy will fare far worse if a second wave of virus outbreaks leads governments to renew wide-scale quarantines.
Here are our 
Ethiopia, which has some of Africa’s highest numbers of cases and deaths from the coronavirus, formed a partnership with a Chinese company to increase testing capacity.
The French cities of 
Silvio Berlusconi, the former Italian prime minister, left a Milan hospital on Monday, nearly two weeks after he was admitted for pneumonia caused by Covid-19.
Antarctica is the only continent without a single reported virus case, but an influx of researchers is expected in the coming months.
Astronomers have detected a chemical in the toxic atmosphere of Venus that could be a sign 
The chemical, a gas called phosphine, is produced on Earth by anaerobic life, microbial organisms that don’t require or use oxygen. The team of scientists says Venusian life is the best possible explanation for its presence, but other researchers argue that the phosphine could be the result of unexplained atmospheric or geologic processes.
Disney had hoped to make a splash in China, the world’s second-biggest film market, with its $200 million remake of “Mulan.” But 
Chinese moviegoers pointed to historical inconsistencies. Many grumbled that the “real” Mulan, who in the original poem came from China’s northern steppe, would never have lived in a tulou, the round, earthen traditional homes of the ethnic Hakka people in the far south. The filmmakers were trying too hard to pander to China, viewers said, and did not try hard enough to get their historical facts right.
That’s it for today’s briefing. Until next time.
— Natasha
To Theodore Kim and Jahaan Singh for the break from the news. You can reach the team at 