
Want to get The Morning by email? 
Every December, media organizations publish lists of the year’s “most read” stories (and you’ll see The Times’s list in a newsletter next week). But today — on Christmas — we’re going to do something different.
In 2020, three enormous stories — a pandemic, an election and a racial-justice movement — dominated the news. They were so big that they overshadowed many other subjects. So I asked top editors from across The Times to tell me their favorite overlooked articles that they published this year.
Overlooked is a subjective idea, of course, and maybe you have already read some of these. But I’m confident that many of you haven’t. They are a deeply human mix, filled with discovery, joy and pain. Some touch on the year’s big themes and others are entirely distinct.
House Republicans 
Economic benefits like unemployment payments 
If Trump vetoes the bill, Congress could potentially override the veto. If he does nothing — known as a pocket veto — Trump may leave Congress 
Mexico 
Federal officials said the U.S. had 
More than one million people have received a dose of a virus vaccine in the U.S. 
As of Monday, the U.S. 
More than one million people 
Britain and the European Union 
The agreement also covers many mundane but crucial matters, including visas, health insurance and travel. It’s a pretty good deal for the E.U., 
Morning Reads
This holiday season, consider journalism that helps your friends and family understand what’s happening in the world and how to navigate it. 
Steve Kornacki, the MSNBC correspondent who became 
Kornacki is a football fan, and appearing on the broadcast was “one of those pinch-yourself moments,” he 
You can have access to the same kind of computer algorithm that Kornacki uses on the air. The Times has created 
You can see how today’s Christmas Day game between the 
Pixar’s latest film, “Soul,” is a story about jazz, death, ambition and art that veers into the metaphysical. 
Despite empty stands, there were many 
Many of our wardrobes changed this year. 
The pangram from yesterday’s Spelling Bee was 
Here’s 
P.S. The Neediest Cases Fund dates back to a walk that Adolph S. Ochs, then the publisher of The New York Times, took 
You can see 
There is no new episode of “The Daily” today. 