
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering concerns about a fast-spreading 
In a bid to keep out a concerning variant of the 
Designed to cut off the capital and its surrounding counties from the rest of England, the new measures are 
Here are the 
In Sweden, there have been 66 new daily cases per 100,000 people over the past seven days, a rate nearly identical to that of the U.S., while Lithuania has the world’s highest current rate of spread, with a daily average of 98.6 new cases per 100,000 residents over the past week.
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu became 
Of the tens of thousands of refugees who have fled the conflict in the Tigray region of Ethiopia, nearly a third are children, hundreds of whom 
A Times reporter and a photographer visited the Um Rakuba refugee camp in Sudan to hear their stories. Many said they were separated from their families after bolting from their homes in the middle of the night and trekking hours or days to reach safety with nothing but the clothes on their backs. Some encountered violent militias and dead bodies along the way.
Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed of Ethiopia has declared an end to the offensive in Tigray, but there are still reports of fighting. The refugees say that the trauma of what they have experienced will keep them from going home any time soon.
Just hours before the federal government was set to run out of funds, U.S. lawmakers struck an agreement 
The package would provide direct payments of $600 and jobless aid to struggling Americans, and badly needed funds for small businesses, hospitals, schools and vaccine distribution, overcoming months of stalemate on a measure intended to boost the pandemic-battered economy.
The House could vote as early as Monday on the final spending package, and the Senate is expected to follow shortly afterward, sending the bill to President Trump for his signature.
When a shopping mall closes, 
When the pandemic struck, I saw it as a challenge, to think what I could do that would not be just wild prognosticating about what would happen to the city. So I wrote to a bunch of people I knew, architects, historians and others, right before the lockdown. I asked, “What about taking a walk around town?”
By the time we published the second walk, about 
The truth is that virtual walks were in many ways easier to do because we could pack more into a conversation without having to deal with actually walking long distances or talking over traffic. That said, I was glad to return to walking, as I did around Chinatown, because it let me meet up with various people and because, well, actually walking the city is a joy.
I had Chinatown in mind from the start because that neighborhood was, even before the lockdown, hard hit by a wave of xenophobia. I wanted to remind people not just how wonderful the neighborhood is but how central it is to New York’s historic identity and diversity.
I wanted even people who had walked these places before to see them through different eyes. For me, much of this environmental, pre-colonial and 19th-century history was news, and exhilarating and humbling because it reminded me just how much I don’t know but also how endless New York is.
That’s it for this briefing. Have a great week.
— Natasha