
Countries across Europe and beyond began closing their borders to travelers from the United Kingdom on Sunday, and the European Union set up a crisis management meeting, a day after Britain’s prime minister, Boris Johnson, 
Train stations in London on Saturday night filled with crowds of people scrambling to leave the city to escape the new restrictions, which went into effect at midnight and effectively quarantined the capital and other areas from the rest of the country, the harshest measures to be taken since the country’s first lockdown in March.
On Sunday, Britain’s health secretary, Matt Hancock, called those who packed trains “clearly irresponsible.” He also said that the restrictions Mr. Johnson imposed could be in place for months.
Last train out of Saigon. Queue at St Pancras as we wait to board the Leeds bound train. 
The first wave of countries to bar travelers from the United Kingdom were in Europe. The Netherlands said 
Italy also suspended air travel, and Belgian officials on Sunday enacted a 24-hour ban on arrivals from the United Kingdom by air or train, which could be extended. Germany and Switzerland announced bans on travel between their countries and both Britain and South Africa, where 
In the United States, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York urged the federal government to take action, saying that “right now, this variant in the U.K. is getting on a plane and flying to J.F.K.,” while also acknowledging that it may be too late. The State Department said that its travel advisory to Britain had not been changed and remained at Level 3.
Within hours, more countries took action. Iran suspended flights to Britain for two weeks, Reuters reported. Israel barred foreign nationals not only from the United Kingdom, 
Transportation officials in England said that they would increase the number of police officers monitoring hubs like railway stations to ensure only essential journeys were being taken. And during one of the year’s biggest shipping periods, the effects were sure to be seen at Britain’s ports. The Port of Dover, one of the world’s busiest, where thousands of trucks travel each day, 
Viral mutations are not uncommon, and British officials said this variant had been detected in a handful of other countries. The estimate of greater transmissibility for the British variant is based on modeling and has not been confirmed by lab experiments, said Muge Cevik, an infectious disease expert at the University of St. Andrews in Scotland and a scientific adviser to the British government.
“Over all, I think we need to have a little bit more experimental data,” she said. “We can’t entirely rule out the fact that some of this transmissibility data might be related to human behavior.”
The virus lockdown came as another down-to-the-wire drama was playing out for Britons: the 
Dana Rubinstein and Raphael Minder contributed reporting.