
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering lockdowns in 
Coronavirus hot spots continue to emerge in countries that are reopening their economies as governments learn to live with the pandemic.
In Spain, the authorities in the Catalonia region have 
England will 
Here are the 
When China imposed a new security law on Hong Kong, Prime Minister Boris Johnson condemned the Chinese government and opened Britain’s doors to nearly three million Hong Kong residents.
It was a strong — some even said brave — stand by a long-departed colonial government against the oppression of a rising superpower. But as China threatened retaliation, Mr. Johnson’s ministers admitted they could not stop China if the government stopped people from leaving Hong Kong.
The 
He and his allies have promised that Britain could play a bolder role on the world stage without the European Union. But with the pandemic crippling its economy at home, the government barely has the bandwidth to reestablish itself on the global stage.
Croatia’s ruling party 
Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic’s center-right party had its best showing in a decade, winning 10 more seats in Parliament. The early election had been called in May, when the government had been praised for its handling of the outbreak. But a spike in recent cases had made that decision potentially risky, as the party’s center-left rivals gained in the polls.
Experts said that voters opted for stability amid a health and economic crisis. “The gamble paid off,” said one political scientist.
In May, the police found plastic explosives and Nazi memorabilia in the home of a German elite soldier. “He had a plan,” said one official, “And he is not the only one.”
Germany is 
The 
“Normally, I would be shooting backstage for American Vogue, and between the shows, I’d shoot street style.
Last year, I was traveling nonstop, shooting from one fashion week to another. So it’s very strange to be at home right now. I took this time for myself and to study, to improve myself, to reflect.
I’ve been invited to Copenhagen Fashion Week in August, so that will be my first fashion week since the start of the Covid-19 crisis. I think it will be an interesting test case for how these kinds of events can be organized in a safe and practical way. And I wonder what kind of outfits there will be — more simple and practical? Will everyone be wearing masks?”
“I haven’t done any work since the quarantine started. I haven’t done any Zoom shoots. It’s a real blow to my social media profile. Because I have savings, I’ll be all right for some time. But I need to get back to work.”
“It has been a big shock. After lockdown was declared in March, Dior (and all the French fashion houses) canceled all temporary contracts for the foreseeable future, and there was no clarity on whether there would be a summer couture show or even a collection.
Usually, this time of year would be so busy. I would pattern-cut at least three looks for the collection and complete at least one of those dresses myself. In January, I made a mousseline green plissé gown that looked simple, but every stitch was so technically challenging. I am not complaining, though. I love what I do.”
“After the clothes themselves, lighting is the most important thing at a fashion show. With bad lighting, the audience can’t see any of the beautiful details or the finish of a collection.
In January, my clients for couture were Dior, Valentino, Elie Saab and Viktor & Rolf. For July, there are none.
The last few months have been so quiet, so I painted my house instead. We’ve started to get some inbound now for the September shows in Paris, but it is still early days.”
That’s it for this briefing. Have a great start to your week. 
— Isabella
• Here’s today’s 