
LONDON — The young woman at the next table didn’t take off her shirt during the high-speed guitar riff of Fleetwood Mac’s “
It was another raucous Saturday-night service at the North London restaurant 
There was the memory of the first dish: a shot of vodka for one hand, a shot of beet juice with a tincture of horseradish for the other, a bite of sausage and pickled walnut — a full round of shots and snacks, all on one plate. At night’s end, Cher sang backup to a deep-fried apple hand pie that arrived in a red plastic basket and dared to be even better than the McDonald’s version.
A couple of miles south, at the minimalist restaurant St. John, diners were finishing their marmalade puddings and madeleines in relative serenity. Just as the chef, Fergus Henderson, decreed when it opened in 1994, there was no music, no art, no flowers and no color anywhere but on the plates. There was a pleasing hubbub of conversation, a cadre of neatly aproned cooks and servers, and a smart but soothing palette of black, gray and white. On a plate lay a shining-fresh whole mackerel with a sharp glare, a perfectly plump lemon and a ruby pile of horseradish-spiked beets.
Modern Britain may be a nation torn by the political and cultural battles over Brexit, which 
St. John, which Mr. Henderson opened with a revolutionary menu of marrow bones, 
You may have to squint to see a through line other than beets and horseradish, but the influence of St. John on Black Axe Mangal — the respect for local tradition, the attention to detail, the balance and technique in each bite — is now settled law.
“Fergus Henderson is the most influential chef of the last two decades, even though you have likely never heard of him,” Anthony Bourdain 
It’s even more likely that you have never heard of Margot Henderson. A chef with two popular restaurants and a high-profile 
Over the last two decades, dozens of young chefs have been mentored by one or both Hendersons. Taken together, the couple’s North London restaurants — 
They didn’t set out to revive any particular traditions. “I didn’t want to make nursery food,” Mr. Henderson said in an interview last month, about the 
But in the early 1990s, he saw possibilities in potatoes and pigs that no one else did. A decade before the much-praised 
“Literally no one was serving cabbage,” said Henrietta Lovell, a 
To eat at St. John and its offshoots in the winter is to become intimate with turnips, beets and a dizzying, delicious parade of brassicas: cabbage salads, radishes with leafy greens attached, thinly shaved kohlrabi, butter-braised brussels sprout leaves.
“Everyone talks about the snouts and ears, but you can’t eat like that all the time,” Ms. Lovell said. “It’s the excellence of everything else that make you go back over the years.”
In 2005, for his services to the nation’s gastronomy, Mr. Henderson, now 56, was royally honored as a Member of the Order of the British Empire (popularly known as an 
Since then, the legend around Mr. Henderson has reached heroic proportions. As the story goes, he picked up the sputtering torch of traditional British cookery, nearly extinguished by postwar rationing, frozen food and American fast food; single-handedly liberated the nation from the culinary tyranny of France and Italy; and led it back to a preindustrial paradise where each pig was known and loved, every fish was fresh and local, and no one ever got tired of cabbage.
There are several things wrong with this story, and the restaurant’s silver jubilee seems like a good time to correct them.
First, as Mr. Henderson is quick to say, he did nothing single-handedly. His longtime business partner Trevor Gulliver has managed the restaurants and upheld St. John’s quirky tenets (including an old-fashioned all-French wine list) since the rocky beginning. Londoners stayed away in droves from the drafty former smokehouse near Smithfield Market (the anchor of that city’s meatpacking district at the time, and just as deserted at night as Manhattan’s was).
“We didn’t know it then, but a restaurant develops a relationship with people and a relationship with a city,” said 
Mr. Henderson had little professional experience when he and Ms. Henderson met; she had already cooked in her native New Zealand; in Sydney, Australia; and in trendy restaurants in London. “She made me a chef,” he said simply.
Her experience, she says, is why she was able to spot the genius in Mr. Henderson’s early experiments. “Everyone else was fiddling with chicken breasts and coriander, boning out quail and making food look like something it wasn’t,” she said.
They opened a tiny restaurant together in 1992, above the 
For many female chefs, that is a career-ending decision, but Ms. Henderson never stopped cooking. Instead, she started Arnold & Henderson, a catering company, with Melanie Arnold, also a mother and a restaurant refugee. When the business outgrew their home kitchens, they moved it to a bike shed in the then-remote, now-hip Shoreditch district, then grew it into two restaurants, both called Rochelle Canteen. (The second is housed in the 
Arnold & Henderson now handles chic events like the designer Paul Smith’s recent 50th-anniversary dinner at Paris Fashion Week, and clients like 
In short, Ms. Henderson has done the improbable: At an age (54) when most chefs find their knees and energy are giving out, and in an industry that routinely chews through working parents, Ms. Henderson is becoming a famous chef in her own right.
“What she does has so much complexity, but it reads as effortless,” said the chef Danny Bowien, a St. John and Rochelle Canteen superfan. His own explosively seasoned food at the Mission Chinese Food 
Without leaning on sauces and spices, he said, they “know how to tame the fattiness of a cut of meat, but they also know how to add fat to something like cabbage, and make it all taste like itself. That’s much harder.”
That apparent effortlessness has inspired another fallacy: that the food at St John isn’t a chef’s vision, but simply the rustic, traditional cooking of Britain’s past.
“No one’s great-grandparents ate like that,” said Jay Rayner, the longtime restaurant critic for the Guardian, who devotes a chapter of his 
He said the sound-bite version of St. John glosses over the fact that Fergus Henderson is not a farm boy, but a born-and-bred London bohemian, raised by intellectual parents on Marcella Hazan’s Italian recipes and Elizabeth David’s French country cooking. (Mr. Henderson graduated from architecture school before taking to the kitchen.)
“He’s very much an art-school kid,” Mr. Rayner said, adding that the couple’s style “is actually a function of their taste and sophistication.”
“You can’t separate the two of them,” said Kitty Travers, a craft ice cream 
In another contrast to other British chefs of their generation, like 
That loyalty has only intensified as the partners negotiate the progression of Mr. Henderson’s Parkinson’s disease, which was diagnosed in 1998. He can no longer cook fast enough to work during service, but — as with many eminent chefs — his absence doesn’t seem to matter: He is still unquestionably in charge.
Ms. Travers is one of a growing group of influential young cooks descended from the St. John/Rochelle Canteen line, along with the baker 
Mr. Lowe, who opened 
Ms. Travers no longer restricts herself to local ingredients. “I was always trying to sneak pineapple onto the menu” at St. John, she said, by arguing that Victorian-era aristocrats grew them in hothouses. But she does go to the source for ingredients, driving to Italy to pick out Amalfi lemons and to France for ripe apricots for her small-batch ice creams.
Whether she will be able to keep road-tripping for fruit now that Britain has left the European Union is in question. And the national debate over 
“I don’t think they set out to romanticize British food,” said Anna Sulan Masing, who 
At St. John, that narrative does not include plantains from the Caribbean, pomegranates from the Middle East or pasta, for that matter. “They have their core ingredients,” Mr. Bowien said admiringly. “They’ve never wanted to take their ox head and put it into tacos, or start 
Still, the Hendersons are trying to move the needle on diversity among their employees. Like most restaurant kitchens, St. John’s have long been overwhelmingly male. The Rochelle Canteens are largely staffed by women, but there has not yet been a female head chef at a St. John restaurant.
The current chef at St. John Bread and Wine, Farokh Talati, is the son of 
Since Mr. Talati started at St. John in 2015, he said, few people who are not white and European have applied for jobs. “I can see how some chefs might feel they don’t belong” in a kitchen with a reputation for rigorous British tradition, he said. “I hope I can open the door on that a little bit.”
He said Mr. Henderson and Mr. Gulliver were fiercely encouraging to chefs who want to explore new ways of cooking, like the pop-up Parsi supper club Mr. Talati hosts once a month.
Black Axe Mangal began life as a pop-up. He left St. John to open it after 13 years, and only because he received a small surprise inheritance. “I thought I would be there for life,” he said. Like several other alumni couples, Mr. Tiernan and his wife, Kate, met as St. John co-workers. “It was family. It was home,” he said. (Insert here the sound of a tattooed metalhead trying not to cry.)
Black Axe Mangal, which the couple opened in 2015, is certainly the least likely and most modern descendant of St. John. One of its lodestars is Mr. Tiernan’s homage to St. John’s famously unadorned 
“We bless the bones with some braised oxtail and bread crumbs,” he said, then blister them under the grill. The parsley is loaded with anchovies, lemon, garlic, and vinegar-pickled chiles and onions. “If you look at it, it’s exactly the same,” he said. Not quite. The BAM version is arrestingly, almost indecently, flavorful.
The restaurant is named for the late-night kebab shops that dot London, especially near Tube stops. A kebab on the way home from drinking is a hallowed tradition; mangal is a Turkish word for “grill.” In much the same way that pizza has become an American food, the Middle Eastern kebab is a staple here, sometimes with local flourishes like French fries and ketchup-like “kebab shop chilli sauce.”
Mr. Tiernan said he began to brood about kebabs as he worked at St. John. “At some point most of the mangals had switched over from homemade pita to ready-made,” he said. “And then when they switched over to tortilla wraps, it all went really wrong. You need a proper bread to soak up the marinades and the sauces.”
Because working for the Hendersons opens kitchen doors all over the world, he was able to consult with Chad Robertson of Tartine Bakery in San Francisco about a flatbread formula.
The result is a charred, bumpy round that forms an absorbent base for the ever-changing experiments that he drops on top of it: charred cabbage with shrimp butter, grilled onions with fresh cheese and pomegranate molasses, smoked cod roe and raw egg yolk.
It is certainly not Turkish food. It is unrecognizable as British food.
“I like the fact that we can’t be pigeonholed.” Like Mr. Henderson, he said, “I’m past caring how other people want to describe what I do.”
Recipes: 