
A Republican candidate who has promoted the QAnon conspiracy theory faced criticism on Wednesday from members of her own party for making a series of offensive remarks about blacks, Jews and Muslims in Facebook videos.
The candidate, Marjorie Taylor Greene, captured more than 40 percent of the vote in a 
Ms. Greene will face the second-place finisher, John Cowan, in an Aug. 11 runoff, the winner of which is widely expected to prevail in the November general election in the conservative northwest Georgia district.
Mr. Cowan, a physician, won about 21 percent of the vote in the primary. For the last decade, the seat has been held by Representative Tom Graves, a Republican, who 
Ms. Greene, a businesswoman, was criticized for remarks she made in 
In the videos, Ms. Greene said she would feel “proud” to see a Confederate monument if she were black because it would symbolize progress since the Civil War.
Politico also reported that Ms. Greene said that black people “are held slaves to the Democratic Party,” that the 2018 midterm elections — in which the first two Muslim women were elected to the House — were part of “an Islamic invasion of our government,” and that George Soros, a billionaire philanthropist who was born into a Jewish family in Hungary during the Nazi occupation, was a “Nazi himself trying to continue what was not finished.”
Ms. Greene also rejected the idea that racial disparities affect life outcomes, saying: “Guess what? Slavery is over. Black people have equal rights,” 
The comments brought a chorus of criticism from Republican leaders in Congress.
“These comments are appalling and Leader McCarthy has no tolerance for them,” said Drew Florio, a spokesman for Representative Kevin McCarthy, the House minority leader.
“The comments made by Ms. Greene are disgusting and don’t reflect the values of equality and decency that make our country great,” said Representative Steve Scalise, the House Republican whip. “I will be supporting Dr. Cowan.”
And a spokesman for Representative Liz Cheney, the No. 3 House Republican, said: “Obviously, Representative Cheney opposes these offensive and bigoted comments.”
The National Republican Congressional Committee, the House Republicans’ campaign arm, does not get involved in primaries, according to a spokesman, Chris Pack. But the group’s chairman, Representative Tom Emmer, “is personally disgusted by this rhetoric and condemns it in the strongest possible terms,” Mr. Pack said.
Ms. Greene released a statement pushing back against the criticism.
“Every Republican, every Christian Conservative is going to be called a racist and a bigot by the Fake News Media, as have Steve Scalise and Liz Cheney,” she said. “I’m sorry my future colleagues are unable to stand up to the pressure and fight back.” 
Ms. Greene had already gained attention for promoting 
The person claimed to be a high-ranking official privy to top-secret information from President’s Trump’s inner circle. Over two years and more than 3,500 posts, Q — whose identity has never been determined — has unspooled a sprawling 
“Q is a patriot,” Ms. Greene said in a video 
Last month, Republicans in Oregon
QAnon also has surfaced in criminal cases, merchandising and at least one college class. In January, hundreds of QAnon enthusiasts gathered in a 