
“And they lived happily ever after,” affirm the stories we tell our children about a beautiful commoner marrying Prince Charming. Just make sure your kids don’t see Thursday’s headlines in the London dailies.
“Civil War as Harry & Meg Quit the Royals,” screamed 
How that will work is hard to predict. No one 
True to the intense attention the Duke and Duchess of Sussex have attracted since their marriage in May 2018, the press was quickly filled with stories about their finances and prospects, and about how the queen, the prince’s grandmother, would handle the defection. A few articles actually showed sympathy for a couple trapped in a gilded cage that exposed them to constant scrutiny — and, in the duchess’s case, 
Sarcasm and exaggeration come easily when writing about royals, and the story of Prince Harry, the rambunctious second son of Prince Charles and Diana, Princess of Wales, reaching across the Atlantic to marry an American actress was custom-made for the tabloids — and, yes, for serious papers like this one. Their wedding at Windsor Castle and the birth of an adorable son, Archie, a year later was grand copy, a morality tale of a changing world, a fairy tale updated with diverse millennials. But as the children’s stories fail to warn unsuspecting youngsters, being royal isn’t all about living happily, and certainly not ever after.
Almost from the outset, a parallel line of nasty stories spread in the tabloids about Meghan’s difficulties with her American family and purported rifts among the royal family. Instead of adopting the British tradition of a stiff upper lip in the face of adversity, as Queen Elizabeth has so admirably done throughout her long and crisis-riddled reign, Prince Harry and Meghan proclaimed that they did not intend to play by the old rules. The prince, who lost his mother to a horrific car chase through Paris, spoke openly about his emotional struggles; the duchess made no secret of the difficulties of her new role. “Not many people have asked if I’m O.K.,” 
In October, the couple struck back, filing a lawsuit against The Mail on Sunday over the publication of a private letter from Meghan to her father. In 
Given this background, the couple’s decision to withdraw from the Firm should not 
But the real value of the royal family has never been in cutting ribbons and proving endless fodder for the tabloids; it has been in the continuing saga of fairy tale kings and queens coming to terms with the world. In this story, Prince Harry and Meghan should not be lamented as defectors from the old order, but celebrated as the heroes of the next installment, as modern royals renouncing some level of privilege to seek their fortune in the real world. May they live happily ever after.