
The Duke and Duchess of Sussex 
It’s not fully clear and it depends whom you ask. 
In 
The message seemed to suggest a desire to relinquish some (public) lifestyle funding in order to be less beholden to 
According to 
“Discussions with the Duke and Duchess of Sussex are at an early stage. We understand their desire to take a different approach, but these are complicated issues that will take time to work through.”
No bad ideas in a brainstorm.
They don’t appear to have been totally blindsided by the couple’s intentions.
Our colleague Mark Landler 
But, basically, no one was ready for the announcement. The Sun, a tabloid owned by Rupert Murdoch, reportedly got wind of things, and Prince Harry and Meghan jumped the gun.
Sources said that the detailed Sussex website that appeared in conjunction with the announcement that the couple would relinquish their roles as “senior” royals was designed without input from Buckingham Palace.
No. It’s a designation applied to those adult members of the royal family closest to the throne in the line of succession, and their spouses, who tend to carry out the majority of public engagements alongside and/or on behalf of the queen. It currently refers to Queen Elizabeth II and her husband, Prince Philip; Prince Charles and his wife, Camilla; and Prince William and his wife, Kate. One could argue that, since Prince Harry has neither removed himself from the line of succession nor given up his title, he and Meghan remain senior royals.
Announcing a plan to “step back” from being a senior royal is sort of like declaring an intention to recuse oneself from being famous.
Specific reasons mentioned on their website include enabling themselves “to earn a professional income, which in the current structure they are prohibited from doing,” and handling their own media relations. On that second point, they particularly emphasized their decision to operate independent of the so-called Royal Rota — a key feature of royal family press relations that grants perpetual special access to journalists from seven British publications, including some tabloids. 
Harry has long been critical of the British press. In October, he and Meghan initiated legal proceedings against the publishers of multiple British newspapers. He explained their decision 
And let’s not forget the 2017 
Not exactly (
Other family members have also scaled back their public duties for a variety of reasons. Prince Philip 
More Britons currently appear to have a view on Megxit than they did on the royal wedding itself.
At first, there were clear and loud rumblings of support. Then a few questions arose about cash, given that quite a lot of it had been thrown about in the last few years. The wedding. The house. The bodyguards. 
What really roused Brits was the statement from the palace, which implied that couple had not fully discussed their retreat from royal life with the queen, whom we love. How dare they?
The term “Megxit” got a lot of airtime. “
Mixed? Very positive around the birth of baby Archie. Less positive around all the private jet hopping last summer. But most Brits haven’t been paying much attention. Between the recent general election, Australia being on fire and Brexit, the prospect of Megxit had not crossed many people’s minds.
Harry and Meghan made their bombshell announcement on Jan. 8. Seeing as Jan. 9 is Kate’s birthday, and multiple members of the royal family were photographed arriving at Kensington Palace, for what multiple British websites described as a planned birthday celebration (in the middle of the day, on a Thursday), we cannot state with full confidence that no one’s birthday was ruined.
Some say: not so many. Last year, the Swedish royal family 
Being royal is expensive, and income inequality is a hot topic. The idea of trimming the royal fat, if you will, is to keep the focus on those in the direct line of succession and minimize the degree to which the family can be criticized for using public funds.
Members of the British royal family are fond of sharing the following statistic: The contribution from U.K. taxpayers toward the full overhead of the British monarchy is equivalent to approximately £1 per British person per year.
For argument’s sake, one could note that the French royal family costs French taxpayers nothing, because it was abolished. One former royal palace became the Louvre.
They have expressed no intentions to relinquish their titles. Their new website consistently refers to them as “Their Royal Highnesses The Duke and Duchess of Sussex.” 
According to their statement, Harry and Meghan will split their time “between the United Kingdom and North America.” 
Earlier this week, the couple visited an official Canadian residence in London “to thank the High Commissioner Janice Charette and staff for the warm hospitality” they enjoyed on a private vacation over Christmas, according to their Instagram page. The caption of 
For those reasons, and because it’s part of the British Commonwealth, Canada seems like a safe bet for a North American base. There is also speculation that the family could spend more time in Meghan’s home state of California, where her mother resides. 
Meghan was 
They plan to earn an income!
Unclear, but an 
One possible clue about their intentions: In June, Harry and Meghan’s foundation submitted a 
Harry’s inheritances from his mother and great-grandmother, coupled with Meghan’s acting earnings, mean that the couple are almost certainly millionaires several times over. While they don’t receive a “salary” as members of the royal family, they are granted allowances from various royal sources.
Harry and Meghan have publicly declared their intention to relinquish the funds from the Sovereign Grant, which they say covers five percent of the costs associated with running their official office. (The Sovereign Grant is money the British government pays the monarch to fund monarchical duties.) The remaining 95 percent of their office expenses — equivalent to millions of pounds — are paid for by what is deemed Prince Charles’s “private income,” earned from his estate, the Duchy of Cornwall.
The couple’s statement does not indicate an intention to stop accepting funds from Prince Charles. The website ever so vaguely suggested that they will also continue to receive free security protection from London’s Metropolitan Police.
Yes. He 
No. The series finale of “Suits” aired in September of 2019.