
MILAN — James Bond has an unexpected weapon in the forthcoming espionage flick, “No Time to Die.” 
Corduroy. 
What? The famously slick Tom Ford tuxedo-clad super spy invented by Ian Fleming now wearing the fuddy-duddy fabric most often associated with 1970s literature professors?
Yes, if 
It comes courtesy of the Italian designer 
Even Mr. Alba was surprised by the sartorial choice, saying he assumed the whole thing was a joke when he received an email last March from Jane Gooday, the film’s head costume buyer at Pinewood Studios, outside London.
“I spoke with my personal trainer that morning and he couldn’t believe it,” Mr. Alba said. “He told me not to get my hopes up, that maybe I wouldn’t even get to see my clothes in the film.” 
After receiving the look books for Mr. Alba’s spring 2019 and fall 2019 collections, the studio ordered 30 suits, raincoats and trousers from the spring styles, each in three European sizes — 50, 52 and 54. The unlined Sloop suit came in what Mr. Alba called “Desert,” a sandy hue; the duster coat in “Agades,” a moss-green color named after the Niger city Agadez; and the pants in a gray shade called “Alluminio” or aluminum. And the studio paid the bill — though Mr. Alba declined to say just how much it was.
For this was no big-budget product placement deal. Mr. Alba, 59, who started his business in 2006 after stints at the knitwear labels Ballantyne and Malo, has no marketing department or digital communications division (
Yet from his showroom tucked away in Milan’s Navigli canal district, the soft-spoken, bespectacled designer, a reluctant name-dropper, has dressed such celebrities as Leonardo DiCaprio, James Franco, Stanley Tucci, Ian McKellen, and — yes — the current Bond, Daniel Craig. It was Mr. Craig, Ms. Gooday said, who suggested that they seek out Mr. Alba for the film wardrobe. The actor “had bought a pair of the designer’s needlecord jeans for his personal life,” she wrote in an email, and clearly liked them
As to why, well, Mr. Alba ”doesn’t do mood boards or second-guess the season’s fashionable color,” said David Coggins, author of the 2016 book “Men and Style.” But, “he’s a very enlightened designer, perfect for this enlightened Bond.”
This is a Bond, after all, that comes 
So how to give Bond a blast of the contemporary? Enter Mr. Alba.
”Informality is the key to my label,” said Mr. Alba, with his 10-year-old golden Labrador, Jasper, at his feet. “There’s nothing pressed or rigid,” he said of the watercolor-hued garments hanging around him.
According to Bruce Pask, men’s fashion director at Bergdorf Goodman and Neiman Marcus, “Massimo’s corduroy suit is deconstructed, unlined and soft. It reflects the uniform of contract worker today, or the freelance and creative class.”
Indeed, previous criticism of the Bond’s wardrobe in 
On Matt Spaiser’s site, The Suits of James Bond, there are 
Mr. Alba sees the turn from the Ford and Brioni suits of past Bonds to his styles as evolution. 
 And Mr. Spaiser said Mr. Alba’s work would provide collectors with an opportunity: “They’re much cheaper than a Tom Ford.” (Mr. Alba’s Sloop suit retails for about $1,000; a Tom Ford wool suit is online for $3,960.)
For Mr. Spaiser, whose site receives 30,000 visitors a month, and usually sees a spike ahead of the franchise’s latest release, “Bond in an off-duty suit implies a man who appreciates clothes. If you’re wearing a cord suit, it means you don’t have to wear a suit, it’s because you want to wear it.”