
Good morning.
We’re covering the adjustment of 
Pubs, restaurants and theaters in London will close once again as the British government 
Here are 
We asked readers to send us questions about the new vaccines. Here are the 
The 
The coronavirus death toll in the U.S. passed 300,000. Over the past week, there has been 
The European Union on Monday unveiled a mobile app aimed at facilitating safe travel within the 
The Netherlands will lock down for at least five weeks to limit the spread of the virus, Prime Minister Mark Rutte announced.
In New York City, 
In a crucial milestone for Joe Biden, the Electoral College on Monday 
With high stakes for both parties, 
Companies like Amazon, Apple and Google are 
Despite the campaign, the industry has had few major successes. European leaders have denounced the companies as threats to democracy and anticompetitive, and have taken steps to rein them in. Amazon, Apple, Google and Facebook either are under antitrust investigation or have already been penalized billions of dollars. In recent years, the European Union has adopted industry-opposed laws on issues including privacy and online copyright.
Eating fugu has been a perilous act for most of human history. But in Japan, where it’s against the law to serve the fish without a license, the danger is limited — and, even more so of late, with the rise of farmed fugu believed to be entirely toxin-free.
Despite cultural concerns about the risk of poisoning, Westerners who chronicle their first taste of fugu tend to dismiss it as bland. Perhaps the experience is 
Part of what I’m trying to do is humanize our profession. I try to showcase being fun but also professional, and hopefully people can learn something.
As doctors, we don’t get any marketing or communications training, and yet we’re expected to contribute to our community and to public health. We’re going to have to meet patients where they are, and communicate information in interesting and digestible ways.
The approach that I try to take is to leave room for the gray. If you say vaccines don’t cause any harm and are the best things in the world, it can alienate people who are vaccine hesitant. If we instead acknowledge that there are potential risks just like anything else in medicine and life, it’s a more effective message.
For coronavirus vaccines, I would probably do something with a voice-over that explains my own reasons for getting vaccinated, and lays out the side effects and the risk-benefit analysis I’ve done in my mind and what we gain from the vaccine. I’m sure the coronavirus vaccines are confusing to everyone, because they’re confusing to us, too.
That’s it for this briefing. Have a great day.
— Natasha