
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering the 
Germans will begin 
Nonessential stores, schools and hairdressers will be required to close starting Wednesday, and companies will be encouraged to offer employees an extended holiday break or allow them to work from home.
The number of people allowed to meet privately — including over Christmas — will also be further tightened. New Year’s celebrations outdoors will be all but prohibited, as public gatherings and the sale of fireworks will be banned.
Here are the 
The 
Japan’s 
In the coming weeks, major airlines, including United, JetBlue and Lufthansa, plan to 
Bahrain said on Sunday that it 
The British writer John le Carré, whose exquisitely nuanced, intricately plotted Cold War thrillers elevated the spy novel to high art, 
Born David John Moore Cornwell in Poole, Dorset, in 1931, Mr. le Carré had a ragged, destabilizing childhood dominated by his father, Ronald, a flamboyant con man who went in and out of prison for fraud, lurching the family from extravagance to destitution. Except for two years when he taught at the elite English secondary school Eton, Mr. le Carré was a spy of some kind for 16 years, for M.I.6. and its domestic counterpart, M.I.5.
In a career spanning more than a half-century, Mr. le Carré wrote more than two dozen books and set them as far afield as Rwanda, Chechnya, Turkey, the Caribbean and Southeast Asia.
Speaking on the fifth anniversary of the Paris climate agreement, China’s top leader, Xi Jinping, said on Saturday that by 2030, 
Carbon intensity is a measure of greenhouse gas emissions relative to economic activity. Meeting the goal would mean that as China’s economy grows, so would its emissions, but at a slower rate than before. Mr. Xi also said China would triple wind and solar power capacity to more than one billion kilowatts and expand its forests.
Over the course of three years, Miriam Rodríguez captured nearly every member of the Mexican crew that had abducted and murdered her 20-year-old daughter, Karen. On Mother’s Day, 2017, weeks after she had chased down one of her last targets, she was shot and killed in front of her home.
For many in the northern city of San Fernando, 
In recent months, two photo editors — David Furst of the International desk and Jeffrey Henson Scales of the Opinion section — reviewed around half a million published and unpublished photographs.
“I don’t know that I have ever come across a body of work that’s as complicated as this one,” David said.
In addition to an introduction written by Dean Baquet, The Times’s executive editor, the project includes firsthand accounts from photographers, who provide behind-the-camera context. There are always photographers around the world living the story they cover — under oppressive governments or in residential neighborhoods that turn into battlefields of war — but in 2020, everyone lived it.
The first photo that appears was taken on Jan 1. Just seconds into 2020, in the heart of Times Square, the photographer, Calla Kessler, captured what was most likely the first 
Nearly every editor and writer who worked on The Year in Pictures had the same reaction to the celebratory scene in the frame: “These people had no idea what was coming.”
When asked what he wanted readers to come away feeling, Jeffrey responded: “It was a long year, filled with heroics. And, thus far, we’ve made it through. Be glad of that.”
That’s it for this briefing. Have a great week.
— Natasha