
LONDON — For 
And for the City of London, a large hub for international banks, asset managers, insurance firms and hedge funds, 
Britain left the free trade bloc at the end of January but immediately entered into an 11-month transition period that has kept everything unchanged. What comes after Dec. 31, when this transition period expires, is being negotiated down to the wire. Hanging in the balance are things like fishing quotas, 
But the 
After Jan. 1, that won’t be so simple. The ability of firms in Britain to offer financial services in the European Union will depend on whether E.U. policymakers determine that Britain’s new regulations are close enough to their own to be trusted — a critical concept known as equivalence.
The problem is that some very common banking activities — taking deposits and making loans to companies and individuals, for example — don’t qualify for equivalence. The result will be a patchwork arrangement with large holes. That’s why thousands of people, primarily Brits, living in Europe who have British bank accounts have recently been 
To ease the transition Britain decided to copy some of the European Union’s regulations. In turn, it hoped that the European Union would allow firms in Britain to keep doing business in the bloc. In early November, Britain’s chancellor of the Exchequer said his government would accept the E.U. rules in 
But the European Union hasn’t reciprocated. The bruised feelings raised by Britain’s divorce from the bloc continue to influence relations between the two. Officials in Brussels say they are wary that, over time, Britain will exploit its independence and weaken the restrictions on risk and other rules that banks don’t like.
That lack of a deal “should not be the starting gun for a race to deregulate,” Joachim Wuermeling, who is in charge of bank supervision at the Bundesbank, Germany’s central bank, said last month.
This has led to a political stalemate, in which London and Brussels remain at odds on several key pieces of financial regulation and unwilling to give market access to each other.
One such rule allows investment firms to offer their services and trade financial securities across borders to clients in the European Union, under a piece of regulation called Mifid II. The bloc is updating its rules for cross-border securities trading and won’t grant Britain a stamp of approval 
That stance spurred an outraged response from none other than the governor of the 
“I just do not see how we can have an equivalence process where the E.U. essentially says, ‘We’re not even going to judge equivalence at the moment, because our rules are going to change,’” Mr. Bailey said. “What does that mean, really? It means that they think this is a rule‑taking process.” (The accusation of “rule-taking” is often the ultimate put-down in these talks, meaning that one side is dictating rules to the other.)
The disharmony is underscored by the fact that, unlike the rules that governed pre-Brexit, these regulatory decisions are made unilaterally and can be revoked with short notice.
The lack of agreements mean London will lose financial jobs as a result of Brexit. Even before the year-end deadline, E.U. regulations are compelling banks to shift workers, and capital, to the continent. The movement of decision makers is important: In the event of a crisis, Europe’s bank overseers don’t want critical people to be somewhere offshore, even if it’s London.
Overall, since mid-2016, financial firms have 
But the process hasn’t been completed. It has been 
“Some banks and their customers apparently want to wait until the last minute to make the actual transfers,” Mr. Wuermeling of the Bundesbank said. “They would be well advised to act now.”
JPMorgan has asked about 200 employees to move from London to other European cities, mainly Paris and Frankfurt, before the end of the year. Another 100 workers are expected to move next year. JPMorgan also plans to 
All told, lenders with German licenses will move assets worth about 400 billion euros, or $475 billion, to the Continent because of Brexit, according to the Bundesbank. That will more than double the banks’ assets in the European Union.
The Bundesbank expects banks that have sought German licenses because of Brexit to bring in 2,500 employees, some of whom may be located in other cities like Milan or Amsterdam. That’s hardly the mass migration to the continent predicted a few years ago. (Estimates reached 
Still, the moves keep alive a question that has been posed since the Brexit vote in 2016: Could another European capital unseat London as the region’s dominant financial center?
So far there has been no single big winner. Money has scattered to Frankfurt, Luxembourg, Dublin and Paris.
“London will remain by far the most dominant player,” said Michael Grote, a professor at the Frankfurt School of Finance & Management who has studied the effect of Brexit on financial services.
Regulators are confident that financial stability won’t be put at risk come January, because firms have taken the prudent approach of preparing for the worst. But, they say, there could still be some market volatility as the transition period ends.
Next year, Britain’s financial sector is still expected to be one of the largest in the world: The amount of money it manages is about 10 times the size of the British economy. The business that actually relates to clients in the European Union, and would be threatened by regulatory discord, is relatively small.
“Not that much business in London and the United Kingdom’s financial center actually depends on equivalence,” Alex Brazier, the Bank of England’s head of financial stability strategy and risk, told members of Parliament in September. About 10 percent of the City’s £300 billion in annual revenue from finance and insurance comes from clients in the European Union, he said. Of that about a third, or £10 billion, is from activities that could continue under equivalence rules, he added. 
While London won’t lose its status as the financial capital of Europe, its primacy will be eroded. The market for financial services will become more fragmented.
Andrew Gray, the head of Brexit at PwC, said that dispersal of financial services around the Continent would create more friction in the system, adding to costs. “There is economy of scale of having it in London,” he said. “You lose that economy of scale.”
Eshe Nelson reported from London and Jack Ewing from Frankfurt. Michael J. de la Merced contributed reporting from London.