
It is hard to recall another negotiating process with as many ups and downs or as many make-or-break 
As this week has demonstrated so far, meeting that Sunday deadline is far from certain.
After a meeting between Prime Minister Boris Johnson of Britain and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen in Brussels on Tuesday, at which they were supposed to unravel the remaining knots, reporters found more news in their dinner menu (scallops and turbot) than in their talks. When the meeting ended, both leaders told their sides to start preparing for no deal.
Mr. Johnson’s typically florid explanation was that the E.U. position was “kind of a bit like twins, and the U.K. is one and the E.U. is another, and if the E.U. decides to have a haircut, then the U.K. is going to have a haircut or else face punishment.” Ms. von der Leyen was 
How negotiators can be expected to untangle them by Sunday when their political leaders failed is anybody’s guess. Once again there was talk of the dreaded specter of a “hard Brexit,” with trade between Britain and the Continent abruptly disrupted with lines of trucks backed up on both sides of the English Channel.
That possibility has been raised so often in the four-and-a-half-year Brexit saga that it hardly arouses the alarm it once did. But that makes it no less possible, or threatening. While Ms. von der Leyen and Mr. Johnson both said they were prepared to keep searching for solutions, both also issued orders to prepare for the worst.
The E.U. published a series of 
His government and most credible economic forecasters have painted a far bleaker picture, of cuts to the British economy by 
Britain formally withdrew from the European Union on Jan. 31, but left all E.U. rules in place until a new trade deal was ready, which was supposed to happen by year’s end. The three issues that continue to 
Given the extraordinary number of rules and regulations that the negotiators have had to sort out to untangle Britain from the Union, these last — and especially fishing, which is a 
But to the British, as Mr. Johnson declared, they’re about sovereignty, and it was to recover a sovereignty purportedly ceded to Brussels that a narrow majority voted back in June 2016 to exit the E.U. and that Mr. Johnson was chosen prime minister. The requirement of a level playing field — basically common rules and standards that prevent businesses in one country from gaining a competitive advantage — is a way of keeping Britain locked in the E.U.’s “
It is always possible that the two sides could agree to continue negotiating into the new year, at least on some aspects of a trade deal. Neither side wants a hard Brexit. But what these years of anguished debate and intense negotiations have made abundantly clear is that there is no way, and never was, for Britain to shed E.U. standards, rules and regulators while continuing to benefit from free trade across the Channel. There was always a steep price to pay, and Mr. Johnson has always known it.
Major disruptions in British-E.U. relations are inevitable with or without a deal, but however glowingly the prime minister speaks of an “Australia option,” an orderly separation is by far the better option for Britain and for the European Union. A “level playing field” in commerce is as much in Britain’s interest as in the E.U.’s. Clinging to full control over fishing waters makes little sense given the potential disruption of an established trade in which Britain imports 70 percent of the fish it devours and exports 80 percent of what it catches — quite possibly including the turbot that Ms. von der Leyen served Mr. Johnson.