
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering the steps to approval in 
Pfizer’s coronavirus vaccine on Thursday 
The agency is likely to grant an emergency-use authorization within days, prioritizing health care workers and nursing home residents to begin receiving the first shots early next week.
This formal blessing may help the nation to slow the spread of the virus just as infections and deaths are surging, reaching a record of 
Here are 
The French government said 
The European Medicines Agency, the European Union’s top drug regulator, whose approval is necessary for countries in the bloc to begin rolling out the coronavirus vaccine, has 
Wealthy nations representing 14 percent of the global population have bought over 50 percent of promising coronavirus vaccines, prompting accusations that they are 
European Union leaders in Brussels on Thursday reached an 
The compromise will still tie the funding to
Just over a week ago, more than 70 subsistence farmers from Zabarmari, a village in northeastern Nigeria, 
People in rural areas of northeastern Nigeria, Africa’s most populous country, have largely been left at the mercy of Boko Haram by a government whose security forces have mainly retreated from the countryside to protected garrison towns.
Villagers have been caught in a deadly Catch-22, in which reporting the militants runs the risk of gruesome reprisals, while staying silent may incur the wrath of the Nigerian military, which has been 
When the pandemic struck, coronavirus cases rose rapidly in dense urban centers like New York, rekindling the age-old debate over town versus country and sending the wealthy scurrying to rural idylls — many of which are now experiencing surging case loads of their own. We asked seven experts if 
Lawsuits like this might take years to resolve. Anything dramatic — like a government-imposed rewinding of the WhatsApp and Instagram acquisitions — might not happen for years, if ever. Your experience with Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp or Messenger won’t suddenly be different tomorrow.
Some government officials had tough words for Facebook. But they left off one important point: They are suing Facebook only after years of their failures to restrain its power and because there is now political will to do so.
It is possible that Google, Facebook, Amazon, Apple or even Microsoft could alter their behavior because they’re bogged down by court cases or worried about looking like bullies. Companies fearful of unwanted scrutiny could also change things we like about their products and services.
That’s it for this briefing. Have a restful weekend.
— Natasha