
It’s said that life imitates art — or, at least, that certain creative minds have some sort of uncanny psychic prowess. 
And now that Prince Harry and his wife, Meghan, Duchess of Sussex, have made a 
Bartlett wrote “King Charles III,” a near-future imagining — with Shakespearean-level intensity and iambic pentameter to match — of what happens when Queen Elizabeth II dies and her son Charles, Prince of Wales, ascends to the throne. The show premiered at 
In Bartlett’s world, the whole royal family is there: Prince William and Kate, Duchess of Cambridge; Prince Charles’s wife, Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall; even the ghost of the real Harry’s mother, 
Prince Harry, in this story, falls in love with a commoner and decides to leave behind his life as a senior member of the royal family. “I want to go with her into the world,” he tells his father, “Not trap her here inside these regal walls.”
Sound familiar?
The real Prince Harry and his wife, Meghan Markle, announced on Wednesday that they would “step back” from their official duties, in 
Rupert Goold, who directed “King Charles III” and is the artistic director of the Almeida Theater, noted the correlation on Wednesday, posting an excerpt from the script on Twitter.
The play had always been “unusual,” he said in an interview Thursday, because it was constantly recontextualized by current events — Scotland’s 
But the scene he posted on Twitter, in which Harry explains to his family why he wants to leave, was just “eerie,” Goold said. It’s rare for a scene or a character’s decision, across any art form, to come to fruition this literally — 
“Mike (Bartlett), who wrote the play, sent me a two-word email going, ‘See this?’ or something, with a link to the BBC,” he added. “And I was like, ‘Oh my God. That’s incredible.’”
But even before the “Megxit” announcement, Prince Harry of “King Charles III” wasn’t too far off. In the play, the prince is introduced to an art student named Jess through a mutual friend at a club. They fall in love beyond the palace walls; Harry is particularly smitten with the freedom Jess has in her flat — “TV, Doritos, curry.” 
Meghan is also a commoner with 
As rumors of their relationship began to surge over the next few months, British tabloids latched onto story lines that Meghan wasn’t Prince Harry’s type, or that the American actress wasn’t British enough. The prince’s first confirmation of his relationship came in an 
Jess, in a script written years earlier, complained of similar treatment — though a strained relationship between the royal family and the British press certainly isn’t 
Wednesday’s news took Goold and Bartlett by surprise, Goold said — because after Harry and Meghan’s wedding, that’s where they assumed the coincidences would end.
“We always used to say the one thing that would destroy the play is if Harry gets married, because the whole point was Harry wanting to escape,” Goold said. “I remember Mike and I saying, “O.K., well, that’s the end of the play.’”
Instead, the Duke and Duchess of Sussex’s shift away from the royal family highlighted even more striking similarities. 
In the scene tweeted by Goold, Jess and Harry deliver the news to their family as a joint decision, just as Meghan and Harry appeared to — though the play’s Prince Harry says he wants to “Cast off the Princely burden of my birth,” and there has been no indication from the real royals that they will renounce their titles. 
And earlier in the story, Jess specifically addresses the financial aspect of the decision, criticizing the money Prince Harry receives from the crown — money that Meghan and the real prince seem to be turning away from. 
But perhaps no dialogue sums up the situation quite like Prince Harry’s first line in the play, when, after the Queen’s funeral — in a particularly overt piece of foreshadowing — he tells his family that he plans to make an abrupt exit.