
The inquiries from listeners began from the moment “The Daily” launched back in 2017. What, exactly, is the host 
“Can you tell me, please,” wrote a 
There was genuine confusion. Even low-level rage.
“Please, please, please change the inflection, speed, and delivery of your closing intro: ‘Here’s what else you need to know today,’” wrote 
In my mind, the words were crystal clear. For everybody else, not so much.
Even listeners who could discern them seemed amused by the pronunciation. They took mischievous stabs at spelling out the final offending words.
This week, in an 
Here’s the reality: I just say it weirdly. The word “to,” the word “know” and the word “today” are elided into a messy tangle. Some days I manage to put enough space between them to render them understandable. Other days they’re indecipherable. (The later in the night I record them, the worse it gets.)
After a valiant battle, Michael Simon Johnson has given up trying to change how I say it. But in the ad, he has finally given listeners the gift of an explanation, at least according to 
“omg the daily has finally explained why 
P.S. Another colleague, Andy Mills, has charted the evolution of the sentence through the lifespan of the show:
It started with a few late-night messages on our team Slack channel. Could we, should we, would we … cover Meghan and Harry’s decision to step back from royal duties? Just about everybody was talking about the story. But did it merit a full “Daily” episode in the middle of the Senate impeachment trial?
On our team, there were strong feelings on both sides. Senior editor
“I wanted a break from impeachment news. And here was this story full of drama — a story about race and money and culture. And that felt much bigger to me than just celebrity news. Plus, I knew there’d be great tape, which helps a lot in this medium.”
Senior producer Andy Mills
“I worry about the things that usually suck up media attention — scandals, celebrities, political fighting — and how rarely those things actually produce compelling stories that shed light upon the human condition. So when Lisa, a journalist who usually shares this same concern, brought up the idea of doing a story about the royal family, my first thought was: traitor! But I figured that if this was coming from her, maybe there’s something in all of these stories I’m ignoring that I’m missing.”
“After listening to Mark Landler’s breakdown of the drama, I’m grateful to have had my echo-chamber burst and feel like I have a better grasp on why people find this story so enticing.”
Peter Baker is the White House bureau chief for The Times, an author of six books, a preternaturally fast writer of front-page stories and, it turns out, a little bit of klutz in the studio.
Our interview with him for 
Take a listen: