
LONDON — In early April, Maruthalingam Thiyakumar, a 58-year-old employee of the corner shop in my neighborhood in South London, died from the 
While some of my neighbors and I were able to follow Prime Minister 
Mr. Thiyakumar’s fate is tragic — and typical. The pandemic may affect us all, but its effects are not equal. In 
The ethnic divides in the data are stark. In England and Wales, according to a recent report, black people are 
But not necessarily surprising. As we know, underprivileged people are 
Take housing. Ethnic minorities are more likely to rent and less likely to live in households where social distancing is possible. Two percent of white British households live in overcrowded conditions; this figure is 
These groups are also more likely to live in economically deprived urban areas. Newham, the borough with the highest death rate in London, and Birmingham, which has one of the highest death rates in the country, have large ethnic minority populations and above average 
Ethnic minorities are overexposed on the job as well. Not only do they directly deal with the ill — Indian men are 
What’s more, many work in the parts of the service industry — as hospitality staff, taxi drivers and food workers — that have been worst affected by the lockdown. Black African and black Caribbean men, for example, are 
Culture is a factor, too. One reason for overcrowding is a preference for multigenerational families, which puts elderly relatives at risk and intensifies the spread of the virus. Low English proficiency makes it 
It should be no surprise, then, that ethnic minorities are prone to 
Before the pandemic, black women were 
Nowhere is this differential approach clearer than within the National Health Service. It is heavily reliant on the skills of ethnic minorities, many of whom are immigrants: 
Despite the proven vulnerability of people of color, the government is conducting only 
On Thursday, the government agreed 
As if to prove the point, this week the House of Commons 
Instead, it has sent out a clear message: The work of ethnic minorities may be essential. But their lives are expendable.
Sonia Faleiro (