
Iowa awards just 41 of the more than 1,900 delegates the Democratic National Convention requires for a presidential nominee. But candidates who do well in tonight’s 
Polling averages show Bernie Sanders and Joe Biden atop the field, with Elizabeth Warren and Pete Buttigieg close behind. 
The caucusing is underway, but the results have been delayed by what state Democratic leaders called an effort at “quality control.” Follow our 
His lawyers argued that the case was rushed and that “the answer is elections, not impeachment.” House managers countered that Mr. Trump would feel free to abuse his power again if not removed from office. Above, Representative Jason Crow of Colorado and Representative Adam Schiff of California heading into the session. 
The trial is now officially in recess until Wednesday at 4 p.m. Eastern, when the Senate will cast final votes on the articles of impeachment. But the senators are being allowed 10 minutes each over the next two days to explain how they intend to vote.
Mr. Trump is set to deliver 
Still, the new virus’s apparent death rate of about 2 percent is lower than the 9.6 percent for SARS, and 
Above, the Shanghai stock exchange today. 
And OPEC agreed to discuss 
Air traffic tapes recorded an 
“Should anything like this be happening there?” the pilot asked.
After the transcript was leaked to a Ukrainian news site, Iran ended its cooperation into the investigation of the crash, which killed all 176 people on the Ukrainian plane.
Three days after the U.K.’s formal withdrawal from the European Union, 
Europe’s chief negotiator, Michel Barnier, adopted a steely tone, insisting that Britain must commit to preventing unfair competition. Prime Minister Boris Johnson responded by threatening to walk away from talks if the European Union tries to tie Britain too closely to its rules.
For an agreement to be struck this year, said Sam Lowe at the Centre for European Reform, “the U.K. will have to move a lot and the E.U. will have to move a little.”
Some Japanese are fighting the idea. Together, the coal plants would emit almost as much carbon dioxide annually as all the passenger cars sold each year in the U.S. (Britain is set to phase out coal power by 2025, and France is shutting its plants by 2022. In the U.S., no new plants are actively under development.)
But the Fukushima nuclear disaster forced Japan to all but close its nuclear power program.
A new study points out that some firefly habitats, like mangroves and marshes, are being cleared for farming, and toxic chemicals in insecticides are wiping them out.
But there’s another problem that hits them especially hard: light pollution. It’s not that they need a more romantic ambience — it’s that 
Even far from billboards, streetlights and houses, bright light pointing to the sky gets diffused in the atmosphere and can be reflected in the wilderness.
Those who live in Kansas City, Mo., and Kansas City, Kan., generally excuse outsiders who confuse them.
But President Trump got some flak when he congratulated the “Great State of Kansas” on Twitter for the Kansas City Chiefs’ Super Bowl victory against the San Francisco 49ers.
Were Beyoncé and Jay-Z 
Whatever their intent, the Twittersphere seized on these scenes after the game.
One thing was clear, according to our chief fashion critic, Vanessa Friedman: 
G.M. used a Super Bowl ad to whet our appetite for one of the most counterintuitive passenger vehicles in memory: 
The old Hummer, a barrel-chested gas guzzler based on the military Humvee, was retired in 2010. The new one, which G.M. says will deliver 1,000 horsepower and hit 60 m.p.h. in three seconds, arrives in May. Two start-ups, Rivian and Bollinger Motors, and Tesla are also planning electric pickup trucks.
In essence, writes our reporter Alex Williams, the auto industry has come up with a product to capitalize on “two colliding mega-trends: the monster-truck-ification of America and the growing push against fossil fuels.”
Hope you can have it all this evening.