
STROUD, England — A good pub feels a bit like a living room: a familiar, informal space where you can have a pint with friends and strangers. Sometimes there are games, food and a fire, occasionally a dog or cat. There are often pictures of old people on the walls and sports on the television.
The coronavirus lockdown has proved that the reverse is certainly not true: A living room doesn’t feel much like a pub at all. Enjoying a drink in a room that has been used for the same purpose for hundreds of years is an anchoring experience you are unlikely to get from your sofa.
Pubs are a fundamental institution in Britain. In “The Canterbury Tales,” the pilgrims begin their journey in a pub. 
Pubs have been part of daily life for countless millions of Britons through the Napoleonic Wars, rapid industrialization, two world wars, the Thatcher years and Brexit. But can they survive the coronavirus?
With the world’s second-highest recorded death toll, a lack of personal protective equipment for front-line workers and drastically insufficient testing, Britain faces severe, immediate issues during this pandemic. But as talk turns to economic recovery, pubs should be on the agenda.
Britain’s pubs have been endangered since the 1990s, but the pandemic may deliver the death blow. A 
“Hospitality in general works on such tiny margins that even being down 10 percent is a killer,” said Lotte Lyster-Connolly, who has been behind the bar at one of my favorite pubs, 
When pubs were told to close their doors on March 20, Prime Minister 
Even so, they are still being charged exorbitant rents despite a total — and indefinite — loss of income. Debts are climbing, pushing some publicans toward bankruptcy. According to a survey carried out 
The government has provided small business bailout grants of either 10,000 or 25,000 pounds, (around $12,000 or $30,000), but they fall desperately short of covering fixed costs. Other state support is available as a loan, but that would push pubs heavily into debt.
On May 14, the government 
This is the latest installment in the pub’s struggle. For as long as I can remember, pubs have been on the brink of survival. That one shut every week was common knowledge in the 2000s. The real picture is even bleaker: 
Before the coronavirus arrived, the biggest problem facing pubs was “pubcos,” large companies that own hundreds of pubs, rent the facilities to publicans — and charge hefty fees in the form of exclusive alcohol sales contracts, known in the industry as “wet rents.” These companies, which own about a third of all pubs in Britain, have helped squeeze out independent pubs. They are also known to flip pub properties for commercial and residential real estate.
In some cases, these sales deprive communities of the last social institution still standing. In rural areas like my hometown Stroud, many pubs have taken on functions more commonly found in a community center. The Prince Albert, for example, doubles up as a small music venue and a food bank collection point; it hosts two choirs, a book club, carols through the winter months, debates during elections and even drop-in sessions with local councilors. This is common across 
My own local is 
The British government has been rightly criticized for its blundering response to the pandemic, so perhaps it shouldn’t be surprising that it has done little to protect pubs. But this is a sector of the economy that matters. It’s worth saving.
The new pub task force faces a complex balancing act: not just ensuring pubs can reopen in a manner that protects public health, but also intervening so they are not the next casualty of the pandemic. To avoid total collapse, pubs should be offered a rent holiday. On May 14, one of the largest “pubcos,” at the urging of 60 members of Parliament, offered its 4,000 renters 
Without that, we risk a narrowing of social life — where we raise a final glass to the pub from the limits of our living rooms.
Eleanor Salter (