
After 
Mr. Trump will take his victory and grievance to the campaign trail, no longer worried about congressional constraint, 
What began as a debate over policy and ideology has given way to 
In those weeks, the authorities silenced doctors and others for raising red flags and played down the danger. Their reluctance to go public was motivated, in part, by politics.
As a result, public health experts say, the Chinese government lost one of its best chances to keep the disease from becoming an epidemic. Now the virus has killed more than 300 people and infected more than 14,000 as of Saturday. Above, Beijing Railway Station on Saturday.
Australia and Japan joined the U.S. in temporarily barring foreigners who have recently visited China, and other countries are stepping up travel restrictions. 
The country formally withdrew from the European Union on Friday after nearly half a century of membership, 
The positive case for Brexit — one where Britain strides into a future of economic innovation and vigorous, cleareyed politics — will now be tested. 
Interviews with more than 30 current and former employees and models, as well as court filings and other documents, show repeated complaints about inappropriate touching, demeaning comments and retaliation.
The atmosphere was set at the top by Leslie Wexner, the company’s billionaire founder, and Ed Razek, the chief marketing officer. The misogynistic culture adds to a picture that Victoria’s Secret is a troubled organization, an image that was already coming into focus last year after Mr. Wexner’s ties to the sex criminal Jeffrey Epstein became public.
Our Sports desk picked the San Francisco 49ers over the Chiefs, 30 to 27. 
The halftime show will feature 
That was LeBron James as the Lakers 
Our basketball reporter looked at how the former Lakers guard 
It may take months for federal investigators to determine what caused the helicopter to plummet into a Southern California hillside. 
As the world warms, 
Over 300 American homes have these rinks in their garages, basements or backyards. And they’re growing more popular in tourist destinations around the world: Glice now has 1,800 rinks worldwide. Above, a rooftop in Brooklyn.
Researchers concluded that a wave of modern humans 
“The legacy of gene flow with Neanderthals likely exists in all modern humans, highlighting our shared history,” the authors concluded.
This week we got a look at the most detailed view yet of the sun, described restoration challenges in the Everglades, above, sat down with the pop star turned fashion mogul Jessica Simpson, and more.
For more ideas on what to read, watch and listen to, may we suggest these 
Have you been keeping up with the headlines? Test your knowledge with our 
Today is Groundhog Day. Here’s hoping for an easy spring.