
A U.S. official said that two missiles had been fired from an Iranian mobile air defense system, the SA-15. It is similar to the one that shot down a passenger jet over Eastern Ukraine in 2014. 
“We recognize that this may have been done accidentally,” the Canadian prime minister, Justin Trudeau, said in Ottawa. All 176 people on board were killed, including 63 Canadians. 
Video verified by The Times 
A spokesman for Iran’s armed forces denied the allegations.
That’s when Speaker Nancy Pelosi said she would 
For the moment, neither the impeachment nor the tensions with Iran are deterring investors. 
President Trump, speaking in the Roosevelt Room at the White House, criticized the existing law, the 50-year-old National Environmental Policy Act, as a “regulatory nightmare,” and the oil and gas industry has long pushed for the changes to it. Above, the Mariner East pipeline in Pennsylvania.
Among the proposed changes: strict new deadlines on completing assessments; fast-tracking projects that require minimal federal funding or involvement; and removing requirements for agencies to consider “cumulative impact” of projects, including climate change.
After Tuesday’s major earthquake, some Puerto Ricans are
The director of Puerto Rico’s public utility said he hoped to restore electricity by Sunday, but Gov. Wanda Vázquez was more cautious: “We can’t speak of exact dates. No one can say that.”
His unconventional approach was evident on Wednesday when the billionaire former mayor of New York skipped the early-voting states of Iowa and New Hampshire in favor of a 17-hour trip around the Midwest, including Wells, Minn., above. 
Travelex said it contained the threat and had no evidence that customer data had been removed. It has been offering only over-the-counter services to date. The disruption has also affected financial institutions like Barclays, Royal Bank of Scotland and HSBC, which have been unable to provide travel money to their customers. 
The hackers demanded $6 million for sensitive customer data, which they downloaded since gaining access six months ago, and said they intended to sell it if there was no response by Jan. 14. 
After more than a year of drama, British lawmakers signed off, with minimal fuss and no fanfare, on legislation to take their country out of the E.U. at the end of the month. The bill still needs to be cleared by the House of Lords, but is almost certain to be 
Britain is still very much trying to wrap its head around the decision by Prince Harry and Meghan, the Duchess of Sussex, to step back from royal life — a decision that was 
Our former chief international correspondent writes that Prince Harry’s real declaration of independence is the couple’s 
Betelgeuse (pronounced — and in entertainment, sometimes spelled — Beetlejuice) is normally one of the 10 brightest stars in the sky. But it has dimmed over the last three months to less than half its normal brightness. You’ll find the red giant in the armpit of Orion the hunter (pictured above, top left, in 2010). 
Formed about eight million years ago, Betelgeuse is near the end of its life. But when it will run out of fuel is unknown — perhaps next year, perhaps 100,000 years from now. 
These are among 
So how do we choose? After four months of research, discussion, debate and as many synonyms for “argument” as you can imagine, the Travel desk homed in on two themes: the importance of sustainability and the pull of history. 
Speaking of globetrotting: Here’s our preview of 
In Sweden, everyone fikas — takes a twice-daily break for a little something sweet, coffee and conversation. There are no set rules.
With the help of a Swedish cookbook first published in 1945, Dorie Greenspan, the dessert columnist for The Times Magazine, 
The result: not much to look at but wonderfully moist and buttery, perfect to accompany a chat over coffee or tea. Or, because there are no rules, dessert. 
Hope you have a sociable evening.