
Iran said it was done with “proportional measures” for the U.S. strike that killed Maj. Gen. Qassim Suleimani. Iran’s 22 missiles caused no casualties at their targets, two Iraqi bases housing U.S. troops. 
In a news conference, above, President Trump 
Still, 
In any case, Speaker Nancy Pelosi plans to hold a vote Thursday to 
Experts said that details so far indicated that the plane, a Ukrainian International Airlines Boeing 737-800, could have been attacked. Investigators should have that possibility “at the top of their agenda,” said one former top transportation safety official in the U.S.
Ukraine’s president ordered an investigation. Iranian officials said they would work with Ukraine, but would not hand over the black boxes containing flight data to American investigators or to Boeing. 
Victims of the crash came from 
Senator Mitch McConnell said he had 
And he may not be alone: Democrats in the upper chamber are becoming increasingly impatient, and a growing number signaled that they, too, were ready to set the process moving again. 
Carlos Ghosn, the former Nissan executive, 
Mr. Ghosn accused Nissan of working with prosecutors, motivated by its declining performance. He has also said Nissan and Japanese officials were trying to prevent a merger with Renault, a claim Japanese officials deny.
On the question of his escape, Mr. Ghosn was mum on the details, except to say that “there is a lot of imagination” in some media accounts of his brazen flight.
On Tuesday night, 97 percent of the island was in the dark. Thousands of residents slept outside, fearing new tremors. The chief executive of the Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority said he hoped to get everyone’s power back on in the next day or so. 
Gov. Wanda Vázquez said Puerto Ricans had not experienced in modern times earthquakes like those that struck the island in recent days. “There is no way to prepare for this. It hit us hard, hard, hard.”
In their announcement, made on the couple’s 
They did not say where in North America they would live, but speculation quickly grew that they would go either to Canada, a commonwealth country that they recently visited, or Los Angeles, where Meghan is from.
The finding, by the Copernicus Climate Change Service, an intergovernmental agency supported by the E.U., is 
The evidence mounted all year, including record heat in Germany, above, and concluding with broiling temperatures contributing to Australia’s devastating wildfires. 
Our Australia bureau chief looked at how Rupert Murdoch, the conservative media tycoon, is influencing the climate change debate by s
As of the last week of December, 
Experts said that this season’s flu vaccine might not be particularly effective, but that it’s still worth getting the shot as it can limit the flu’s severity.
The star of “Little Women” and “Midsommar” went from a virtual unknown to one of the most acclaimed actresses of her generation. We sat down with the 24-year-old actress 
Scientists knew octopuses and squid don’t have any depth perception, but they had a hunch their cuttlefish cousins might. They tested it by getting 
How were the glasses placed, you might wonder? Scientists gently lifted the cephalopods from an aquarium, dabbed them between the eyes with a bit of glue and some Velcro and stuck on the specs.
We also have a graphics editor’s story of tagging along on a squirrel census in New York’s Central Park. 
Have a multidimensional night.