
BRUSSELS — In the “America First” landscape that President Trump created, Joseph R. Biden Jr. was an outdated romantic trans-Atlanticist. So there is 
A former French ambassador to Washington, Gérard Araud, said that “every single European leader has had an appalling conversation with Trump.” Referring to the German chancellor and the former British prime minister, Mr. Araud said: “He insulted Angela Merkel, he insulted Theresa May. He attacked them. It was surreal. And it’s over.”
But there will still be wariness among 
Dominique Moïsi, a French analyst with the Paris-based nonprofit Institut Montaigne, said, “We should not underestimate the sense of relief and we should not overestimate the sense that things will change very much.”
Civility will be restored, with Biden planning to 
David O’Sullivan, former European Union ambassador to the United States, said he looked forward to a renewal of American leadership — if not the hegemony of the past, then at least “America’s role as the convening nation” for multilateral initiatives and institutions.
But the world has changed, and so has the United States, where 
“What is difficult to repair is the fear is that this could happen again,” said Stefano Stefanini, a former Italian ambassador to NATO. “If you worry about a one-term presidency, you hold back a lot, which is why Congress will matter. If a Republican Senate tries, as under Obama, to block everything Biden does, Europeans will say, ‘OK, Biden’s fine, but let’s be careful.’”
Clément Beaune, France’s minister for Europe, who is close to President Emmanuel Macron, said in 
The need for more European autonomy and initiative — economically, politically, militarily — is a message that Mr. Macron has been repeating for years now, even as his own efforts to jolly Mr. Trump along 
A Trump re-election might have accelerated that trend. But many, like Nathalie Tocci, an adviser to the European Union’s foreign policy chief, Josep Borrell Fontelles, warn that a Biden presidency “risks Europe reverting back to its comfort zone.”
“Biden is a comfortable way of sticking our heads in the sand,” she said, “but we must realize that the hard and painful choices Trump presented us with remain unchanged.”
The French message may not carry the day in a divided Europe, where Ms. Merkel sees NATO and the relationship with Washington as vital to German national interests. Already, the Germans intend to present Mr. Biden with “concrete proposals on how we can close ranks as a trans-Atlantic community” on China, climate and the Covid-19 pandemic, Heiko Maas, the German foreign minister, 
Mr. Maas did not suggest that those proposals had been coordinated with Paris or Brussels. And Berlin is likely to be hoping that Mr. Biden will let 
Europe is also split about Mr. Trump, where the less liberal states of Central Europe, in particular 
The prime minister of Slovenia, 
For NATO allies, there will be no need to 
But Mr. Biden has a history, post Iraq, of caution in the use of the American military — he opposed the surge in Afghanistan and the intervention in Libya, for example. So while he is likely to renew the 
And there are suggestions from NATO diplomats that the alliance’s secretary general, Jens Stoltenberg, who has been so skillful at dealing with Mr. Trump that his tenure was extended, may be replaced before too long.
There is also some 
Antony Blinken, a senior Biden adviser, has tried to reassure British diplomats. He 
“If we are not doing that,” Mr. Blinken added, “then one of two things happen. Either someone else is, and probably not in a way that advances our interest and values; or no one is, and that can be even worse. Then you have a vacuum which tends to be filled by malevolent things before good things. So the U.S. has a responsibility and self-interest in leading with humility.”
But it’s less clear that even America’s traditional allies will follow quite as confidently as they may have done in the past.
Elian Peltier contributed reporting from London.