
Recent history has served to remind everyone that the real center of the world in 1600, and for the millenniums of human endeavor preceding that date, was a long way from London. This little island floating in a chilly gray sea was indeed, as Arthur Phillips characterizes it in his inventive new novel, “the edge of the world.” The 16th-century kingdoms of Western Europe were diminutive in their international renown and impact. The military power and economic might were elsewhere, in an Asian world of empires ancient, potent and working at a level of intellectual sophistication the West had not yet dreamed of. Previous truisms about the level of contact between West and East being negligible have lately been challenged, and it is an imagined instance of such an exchange that Phillips elaborates in “The King at the Edge of the World.”
No one did more to cross these cultural boundaries than Elizabeth I. Unlike our present leading political panto-dame, Nigel Farage, who dog-whistles about the desire of the Turks to join the European Union, the Tudors took a more curious and enlightened approach. Henry VIII was never averse to decking himself out in Turkish silks and velvet, and made overtures toward a Franco-Ottoman alliance. Holbein’s two famous ambassadors had been sent from France to finesse this deal. As the Ottoman Empire waxed, and inched closer to the center of Europe, it became a power player in the Continent’s ceaseless revolving-door game of diplomacy.
Elizabeth I’s strategy was driven by expediency. Having been excommunicated by Pope Pius V, and out of step with Catholic Europe, she needed allies. In writing to Sultan Murad III, Elizabeth drew parallels between Protestantism and Islam. Both abhorred idolatry and intercession, and both relied on their books, the Bible and the Quran, for direct contact with God. The Sultan replied issuing a new law for his subjects that if Elizabeth’s “agents and merchants shall come from the domain of Anletar [Angleterre] by sea with their barks and with their ships, let no one interfere.” Elizabeth pressed further east than the Ottomans and dealt directly with the Safavid Empire in what is now Iran. If the Reformation can be classed as Britain’s first Brexit, then as now, having cut ourselves off from Europe, we urgently needed to forge alliances elsewhere.
The policy had been formulated by Elizabeth’s spymaster, Sir Francis Walsingham, and it soon reached a breathtaking level of pragmatic realpolitik. The newly formed Levant Company began an illegal trade shipping old tin and lead, stripped from deconsecrated churches and monasteries, to the Ottomans to reforge as armaments. Old church bells became cannons and shells, used to bombard Christian armies. Even Oliver North might have balked at that. It goes to show that the British have never been off the pace in terms of geopolitical cynicism.
“The King at the Edge of the World” looks through the other end of the lens, and sees first England and then Scotland from the viewpoint of a displaced hero from Constantinople. Mahmoud Ezzedine, a Muslim physician and an endlessly forbearing man of sweet goodness, rapidly becomes the innocent victim of these diplomatic exchanges. His downward-spiraling life is a series of incidents in which he is exploited as a pawn in a game of international political chess. He is tricked into joining a delegation to London by a courtier who has eyes for his wife. He is stranded there when he is gifted by his country’s ambassador to Elizabeth. He is further isolated when he is passed on to provide care for an epileptic nobleman in a bleak outpost of Cumberland. And, finally, he is lost at the very end of the world when he is sent on to Edinburgh, to inveigle his way into the affections of the Scottish King James VI, poised to become the English King James I upon Elizabeth’s death. An essentially tender and passive man, Ezzedine finds sustenance in his Islamic faith as his dignity is stripped away.
Phillips, the author of the acclaimed novel “
Despite this narrowness of vision, the book is a delightfully rich fruitcake and an old-fashioned pleasure to read; its plot is an intricate set of intersecting mechanisms and locks and keys, which, when they finally all fall into place, provide the reader with the gawping satisfaction of having been well and truly fooled. And then fooled again. That conjurer’s panache of a reveal is achieved through cleverly withheld information, alluring blind alleys and pungent red herrings. Sentence by sentence, the book blends the leanness of a taut thriller with the marbled fatness of Elizabethan prose. Combining those two is quite the juggling act.
Equally enjoyable is the pleasure, borrowed from John le Carré, of watching the games of vastly intelligent and dead-hearted men as they play with the lives of the less guileful. It is a gray world circumscribed by the maneuvers of shadowy others and by a creeping, ambient paranoia. The yanking together of the Elizabethan court and a Cold War sensibility is a bold endeavor, and almost succeeds, though it’s finally undone by its implausibility. Elizabeth’s rule, midwifed by Walsingham, certainly gave birth to much of the spycraft, deception and intrigue that grew to full and horrible flower in the modern postwar period. But Merrie England was never as hermetically sealed in its certainties as the ideological fixity of the Cold War suggests; it was always vulnerable to the blast of accident, the whim of changed minds, the healing of laughter and the warmth of mercy. The full horrors of total surveillance had to wait awhile.
Simply writing for the reader’s pleasure seems to be increasingly rare these days, and to pick up a book like “The King at the Edge of the World,” which contains teasing philosophical and theological ideas within an unapologetic entertainment, is a small mercy for which much gratitude is due.