
Representative Adam Schiff, the lead House manager, implored senators in one last attempt to allow new evidence and witness testimony in the trial, or risk “long-lasting and harmful consequences long after this impeachment trial is over.”
The vote came hours after The Times reported new revelations from the forthcoming book by John Bolton, the former national security adviser, who said Mr. Trump had involved him in the Ukraine pressure campaign 
A final vote on whether to convict the president is scheduled for Wednesday, after the Iowa caucuses and the State of the Union address.
The move came as major airlines — American, Delta and United — stopped flights to and from mainland China, some effective immediately. The U.S. government also imposed 
U.S. stock markets had their 
More than 200 people have died, with about 9,800 infections confirmed. How bad will the virus get? 
Travel will be restricted with varying degrees of severity from Nigeria, Myanmar, Eritrea, Kyrgyzstan, Sudan and Tanzania. That brings the number of countries on the list to 13. The effect on Nigeria, Africa’s most populous country and largest economy, could be particularly severe. Seen above is Lagos, the country’s biggest city.
The administration has argued that the ban, originally enacted in 2017 to restrict travel from a group of Muslim-majority countries, is necessary to ensure that countries satisfy security requirements for travel into the U.S.
That was Prime Minister Boris Johnson in a national address as 
Very little is set to change immediately, but the moment carries enormous legal and symbolic weight. 
Just as Britain is set to begin trade negotiations to hammer out the final details of Brexit, new data showed that 
We analyzed stump speeches that six Democratic candidates gave in the final weeks before the caucuses as 
The story of the race right now is the rise of Bernie Sanders. 
Out of 75,299 Iowans, 584 picked up the phone and agreed to take our poll. Then we flew to Iowa to meet 15 of them. 
The policy allows mint, dessert and fruit flavors to continue to be sold in disposable e-cigarettes. Some of the devices even have a higher nicotine level than Juul, which has been widely blamed for igniting the youth vaping epidemic.
Doctors have long taken to social media to share healthy messages or promote their work, but now the short-form video app is being used to 
“It’s a good way to give information to people who need it and meet them where they are,” said Dr. Danielle Jones, above.
It also poses a new set of challenges, including packing nuanced health lessons into short frames. Some physicians have also found themselves the targets of harassment.
That was the actor Mandy Patinkin, who after nearly a decade on the Emmy-winning show “Homeland” 
The holy grail of American sports memorabilia — the Brunswick-Balke-Collender Cup, given to the first pro football champions 100 years ago — has been missing since 1920. 
On Sunday night, the San Francisco 49ers will face off against the Kansas City Chiefs for Super Bowl LIV in Miami. Kickoff is at 6:30 p.m. Eastern. 
Hosting? 
Tomorrow is February (yes, you made it through January!) and with it comes a slew of new titles our editors are excited about. There are fraught friendships, coming-of-age stories, Supreme Court drama and more. 
Our children’s books editor also recommends 
Have a page-turning weekend.