
LONDON — Britain’s main opposition party, Labour, suspended its former leader Jeremy Corbyn on Thursday after he deflected blame for the party’s handling of anti-Semitism allegations, setting the stage for an extraordinary rupture with Labour’s recent past and another period of tortured infighting over its future.
The suspension had few precedents in the history of British politics. Only a little more than 10 months after an election in which Labour fought to make Mr. Corbyn prime minister, and just over six months since he stepped down as leader, Mr. Corbyn was no longer a Labour lawmaker.
The impact on Britain’s resurgent left-wing opposition was far from certain. Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s Conservative Party has been hurt by its bungling of the coronavirus response, creating an opening for Labour less than a year after it was seemingly relegated to the political wilderness by its worst election loss since 1935.
But the suspension of Mr. Corbyn, a longtime torchbearer for Labour’s hard left, risked plunging the party back into the vicious factional disputes that became its trademark weakness during his five years in charge.
It also sent shock waves through British politics.
“It’s an extremely unusual thing for a former leader of a major political party to be suspended by that party,” said Rob Ford, a professor of politics at The University of Manchester and co-author of “Brexitland: Identity, Diversity and the Reshaping of British Politics.” “Even the most trenchant critics of Corbyn, I think, would not have expected a move that dramatic.”
Already on Thursday, leftist party members were raising the specter of mass resignations; a group of avowedly socialist Labour lawmakers was reportedly debating leaving the party; and union leaders allied with Mr. Corbyn lashed out at what they called “a political decision” by his successor, 
The dispute was set off by the release on Thursday of a 
After a formal investigation, the Equalities and Human Rights Commission — an independent official watchdog group whose recommendations are legally enforceable — said that Labour bore responsibility for “unlawful acts of harassment and discrimination” against Jewish members on Mr. Corbyn’s watch.
It found that Labour’s political leadership had interfered in the party’s own investigations of anti-Semitic incidents. Those included a complaint against Mr. Corbyn for once 
The watchdog also described the party as having created a culture that could, at times, be seen as tolerant of anti-Semitism and accused two former party officials of anti-Semitic comments that it said amounted to unlawful harassment.
For Mr. Starmer, a former prosecutor and human rights lawyer, rooting out anti-Semitism and repairing ties with British Jews has been a defining goal of his leadership.
“I found this report hard to read, and it is a day of shame for the Labour Party,” he said on Thursday, standing behind a lectern bearing the slogan “A New Leadership” — an unsubtle signal of his effort to transform the party. “We have failed the Jewish people, our members, our supporters and the British public.”
But Mr. Corbyn’s own response to the watchdog report was more equivocal, mirroring statements he gave for years as party leader that Jewish Labour members saw as trying to make excuses for insufficient action against anti-Semitism.
In a statement on Facebook, he acknowledged anti-Semitism within Labour and said that he had tried to make it easier to expel anti-Semitic members. At the same time, he cast the yearslong scandal as a creation of his political opponents.
“One anti-Semite is one too many, but the scale of the problem was also dramatically overstated for political reasons by our opponents inside and outside the party, as well as by much of the media,” he wrote. “That combination hurt Jewish people and must never be repeated.”
A few hours later, Labour said that it had suspended Mr. Corbyn over those comments and had begun an investigation.
“In light of his comments made today and his failure to retract them subsequently, the Labour Party has suspended Jeremy Corbyn pending investigation,” the party said.
Mr. Corbyn retains his seat in Parliament, but loses, at least temporarily, any affiliation with Labour.
The party did not immediately make clear what rule Mr. Corbyn had breached, though analysts said it likely had to do with bringing the party into disrepute. With the watchdog having just criticized Labour for a politicized complaints process, analysts said the party would have to take heed of due process and could very well end up reinstating him after its investigation.
Labour said the punishment was decided on by party officials, not Mr. Starmer.
Mr. Corbyn said that he would “strongly contest the political intervention to suspend me” while also urging members to train their opposition on Mr. Johnson’s government.
Analysts said the decision risked reminding voters of Labour’s internal feuds at the very moment it had Mr. Johnson on the defensive over the country’s rising coronavirus deaths and his refusal to provide children with free meals when school is not in session.
For many Labour members, the party’s long fight over anti-Semitism had become deeply personal. Left-wing Jews described being torn over how to vote in the last election and the need to weigh Labour’s missteps with Mr. Johnson’s own 
The fight exposed deep disagreements on the British left over what was fair criticism of Israel and what made use of anti-Semitic prejudices. And it has highlighted how certain strains of anticapitalism, a position embraced by Mr. Corbyn, have historically risked casting Jews as a class of rich conspirators oppressing working people.
A number of Labour lawmakers 
The Conservative Party quickly tried to cast Mr. Starmer as a hypocrite, reminding people that he had stood alongside Mr. Corbyn for years as a senior Labour lawmaker and accusing him of doing “what’s politically expedient.”
The Jewish Labour Movement, a 100-year-old socialist group that decided not to campaign nationally for Labour for the first time in its history in the last election, praised the suspension.
“Denial of anti-Semitism is part of the problem,” it said in a statement. “Keir Starmer made that clear and said that he would act and that it would have no place in the Labour Party. He has taken responsibility and the Labour Party has acted.”