
More than 2,500 passengers on board are being kept in effective isolation, eating meals in their cabins and keeping at least six feet from each other during the few minutes each day they are allowed on deck. And the situation is worse for crew members, who live elbow to elbow in cramped quarters.
China had extended its official Lunar New Year holiday by 10 days to help counter the virus’s spread. But when the extension ended today, stores and factories remained empty, suggesting it could be weeks — or months — before one of the 
In our Opinion section, an epidemiologist who is heading to the World Health Organization’s emergency meeting on Tuesday lists 
The state’s Democratic presidential primary, the second contest in the 2020 race, is on Tuesday. Bernie Sanders, above, is leading in the polls, and Pete Buttigieg isn’t far behind.
The two are 
As is usual, it’s more of a messaging document. The message: Keep shrinking the federal safety net, with deep cuts to student loan assistance, affordable housing, food stamps and Medicaid, and slash the E.P.A. Add funds to the military, national defense and border enforcement.
Mr. Trump
We’ll be in Manchester, N.H., for Mr. Trump’s rally tonight.
The U.S. government said the attack was part of a 
Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer, above, announced her resignation after a local chapter of her party, the center-right Christian Democrats, allied itself with a rising far-right party, Alternative for Germany.
At a time when neighboring countries are looking to Berlin for leadership in a post-Brexit Europe, Germany is struggling with an uncomfortable sense of having lived through this before, as the growing power of the far right echoes the rise of the Nazis.
The rules will for the first time cement domestic violence, dating violence and stalking as forms of 
Above, a memorial to Lauren McCluskey, a University of Utah track star who was kidnapped on campus and killed by a former boyfriend in 2018, and whose case helped inspire the changes.
As states like New York, Maine and Maryland outlaw polystyrene foam, which can harm fish and other marine life, the company that 
And in Africa, researchers found that an increase in temperatures over the past seven decades correlates with 
Since his retirement and his wife’s death in 2017, Mr. Butz had considered traveling to England or Latvia, or riding the Trans-Siberian Railway. But one night, he said, he was watching “Citizen Kane” on cable and thought, 
So the 71-year-old cut a four-figure deal to 
The South Korean film’s triumph as the first non-English language best picture winner is a result in part of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences’ efforts 
“The success of ‘Parasite’ makes me wonder if the best picture win for a middlebrow nothing like ‘Green Book’ last year was more anomalous than it seemed,” said 
But the fashionista 
Tomorrow night, the Westminster Dog Show will be a scene of high tension, as a handful of four-legged finalists compete for the coveted title of best in show. Until then, 
Have a doggone good evening.
Andrea Kannapell and Penn Bullock contributed to the briefing.