
The number of infected people could be two to 13 times higher, 
The study highlights the need for much more testing to detect infection levels and contain viral spread in parts of the country. The study also indicates that hard-hit areas like New York City are nowhere near achieving herd immunity, when the spread of the virus would start to dwindle on its own.
President Trump, 
An indictment, secured earlier this month and unsealed on Tuesday, says they were 
Protesters are infuriated by President Trump’s 
Some leaders in the Black community worry that what should be a moment for racial justice could be squandered by violence. The combative deployment of camouflaged federal agents has only made things worse.
Our reporter was on the ground in Portland until the early hours Tuesday. 
But Senator Mitch McConnell’s office 
The deal, worth roughly $860 billion, was notable for its firsts: European countries will raise large sums by selling bonds collectively, rather than individually; and much of that money will be handed out to countries hit hardest by the pandemic, like Italy. But there were 
The move reverses the longstanding policy of counting everyone regardless of citizenship or legal status. A legal challenge is expected. Above, a census event in Dallas in June.
The report, by a parliamentary intelligence committee, examined 
“The outrage isn’t if there is interference,” said Kevan Jones, a Labour Party member of Parliament who served on the intelligence committee that released the report. “The outrage is no one wanted to know if there was interference.”
That’s Second Lt. Zala Zazai, above, a Kabul native serving in the police force in the eastern Afghanistan city of Khost. She is one of two women our reporter followed 
Two decades after the Taliban banished women to their homes, the rise of a generation of educated, professional Afghan women is an undeniable sign of change. But the gains remain fragile, and every step is a battle.
Pastry chefs and bakers have been transforming bake sales around the world into 
Also from our Food desk, an illustrated ode to 
When the coronavirus halted concerts, the iconoclastic neo-soul singer and songwriter started rethinking how she would produce, play and interact with fans at concerts. 
Badu’s platform is just one way fans and artists are adapting to a new way of experiencing music together. Whether livestreaming will keep everyone satisfied — and paid — 
Our music critic 
The finest Panama hats have over 4,000 weaves per square inch — it takes a jeweler’s loupe to count the rows of straw. And every single one of those weaves is done by hand. The result is a hat “creamy as silk, costlier by weight than gold, the color of fine old ivory,” writes Roff Smith, a photographer who visited the workshops of the artisans in Ecuador who make them.
There he met Simón Espinal, who is regarded by his peers as the greatest living weaver of Panama hats — possibly the greatest ever. In a good year, he’ll make three hats. “You cannot allow your mind to wander even for a second,” Mr. Espinal said. 
Have a superfine evening.