
Federal health officials acknowledged that the U.S. vaccine rollout has gotten off to a slower-than-expected start, for reasons they haven’t figure out. 
An even wider spread is likely, which would 
“The overall picture is pretty grim,” said Bill Hanage, an epidemiologist at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health.
California’s case is in San Diego County, according to Gov. Gavin Newsom, who did not provide additional details.
Colorado’s two cases both involve members of the Colorado National Guard who were sent to the small town of Simla, about 80 miles southeast of Denver, to help staff the Good Samaritan nursing home, above, which recently had a severe coronavirus outbreak.
Hospitalizations nationally have hit a pandemic peak of 124,686, 
Anger is boiling that the police failed to immediately share that they had gotten a tip last year from the suspect’s girlfriend that he 
A police spokesman said in a statement that officers who went to Mr. Warner’s home “saw no evidence of a crime and had no authority to enter” his property. The girlfriend’s lawyer also represented Mr. Warner, according to the police, and told officers later that he would “not allow his client to permit a visual inspection of the R.V.”
And in Kentucky, the Louisville Police Department will fire the police officer who 
In 2017, Democrats reeling from Mr. Trump’s win gathered support around Mr. Ossoff’s bid in a special election. He lost, but the organizations formed around that race kept growing, 
China and the European Union also struck a landmark pact that would make it easier for companies to operate in each other’s territory — 
The vote, which came late Wednesday after 12 hours of often dramatic debate, set off rejoicing among abortion activists Buenos Aires, above, and 
Argentina’s outcome was a striking rebuke of Pope Francis, who injected himself in his homeland’s bitter political debate, and a setback for the country’s evangelical Protestant churches, which had joined forces with the Catholic Church in opposing the change.
The deadline is Thursday to submit bids for the 10-year leases pushed for by the Trump administration, which would establish drilling rights on tracts covering more than one million acres, but there’s no rush to extract more costly fossil fuels for a world that increasingly seeks to wean itself off them.
So far, only 
In a major upgrade for the busiest — and perhaps the most miserable — train hub in North America, 
Glass skylights and 92-foot-high ceilings give grandeur to the 255,000-square-foot hall, which will also feature 
Caveat: The hall will be used as a waiting room for Amtrak and Long Island Rail Road passengers, leaving subway riders stuck in the miseries of the old Penn Station.
And as we close in on New Year’s Eve, take note that Americans are drinking more and gaining weight while confined to their homes, but the latest federal nutrition guidelines 
We also looked at 
During a year with limited travel possibilities, our Travel desk’s 
Have an adventurous night.