
After months of gridlock and debate, the House and the Senate are both 
The agreement is set to provide $600 stimulus payments to millions of American adults earning up to $75,000. It is also expected to provide more than $284 billion for businesses and revive the Paycheck Protection Program, a federal loan program for small businesses. (Here are more details on 
The deal needs Mr. Trump’s signature — but it also bears, in part, the imprint of the man who is about to succeed him. With 
The travel bans recalled the early days of the pandemic, when international travel ground to a halt. But from a contagion perspective, scientists and experts say 
Just 10 days before the deadline to negotiate a post-Brexit trade agreement with the E.U., Britain’s isolation portended what a rupture between the two sides might look like.
Scientists estimate the new variant is 50 percent to 70 percent more transmissible than the original virus. But that number is based on modeling and has not been confirmed in lab experiments. 
In other virus developments:
The 
Roughly six million doses of the Moderna vaccine are being shipped to more than 3,700 locations across the U.S. this week. It 
For the first time since the Thanksgiving holiday, 
People 
President-elect 
Mr. Barr also said that there was “no basis” for the federal government to seize voting machines, and that he would not appoint a special counsel to oversee the Justice Department’s criminal investigation into Hunter Biden, son of President-elect Joe Biden.
His comments at a briefing today (above) come two days before he is set to leave his position. It is unclear how much pressure Mr. Trump will put on Mr. Barr’s replacement, Jeffrey Rosen, who will lead the department on an acting basis for the remainder of the president’s term.
The federal government had data that should have prompted an immediate lockdown of Mexico City in early December (above). Instead, 
Now the city finds itself in deep crisis.
Last week, Mexico City set record after record for the highest number of patients hospitalized since the pandemic began. Overwhelmed doctors are urging Mexicans to stay home and warning that there are no hospital beds left. And they say they are running out of medicine to sedate patients and specialists to treat them.
A phishing scam with an unclear motive or payoff is targeting authors, agents and editors in an attempt to steal their unpublished manuscripts.
But the manuscripts do not appear to have ended up on the black market, and no ransoms have been demanded. When copies of the manuscripts get out, they just seem to vanish. “The real mystery is the endgame,” said Daniel Halpern, the founder of the publishing imprint Ecco.
A mechanic from Romania and a truck driver from Northern Ireland, both members of an international people-smuggling gang, were 
And a white supremacist who live-streamed his efforts to blast his way into a synagogue in Germany last year on the holiest day of the Jewish calendar was 
While there were no immediate concerns about evacuations or threats to life, the authorities 
Kilauea lies in the southeast corner of the Big Island, where its decades-long activity has been punctuated by sequences of eruptions. It is considered one of the most active in the world.
“Evermore,” the sequel to Swift’s “Folklore,” released in July, topped the latest Billboard album chart. It is her eighth No. 1 album. The Times critic Jon Caramanica 
The K-pop group BTS and the rapper YoungBoy Never Broke Again were the only other artists to top the chart with two different albums in 2020.
The miner uncovered 
Using carbon dating, DNA studies and biochemical analysis, they learned that this arctic wolf pup was less than 7 weeks old when she died. She was in good health and well nourished — probably from salmon — and she most likely died when the sandy soil of her den collapsed.
The 
But for many of us, the night’s best gift is that daylight hours will now start to lengthen in the Northern Hemisphere, until the summer solstice in June.
Have a heavenly evening.