
The number of people who died from the coronavirus in the 
“
Residents of nursing homes are also being prioritized and are expected to begin receiving vaccinations next week. But the vast majority of Americans will not be eligible for the vaccine until the spring or later.
Here are 
Electors in states President Trump had contested — 
“Faith in our institutions held. The integrity of our elections remains intact,” 
And, with high stakes for both parties, 
President Trump said that 
Mr. Barr, one of the most powerful members of Mr. Trump’s cabinet, had in recent weeks fallen out of favor with the president after acknowledging that the department had found no widespread voter fraud.
But Mr. Trump sought to play down their differences, saying in a tweet announcing Mr. Barr’s departure, “Our relationship has been a very good one, he has done an outstanding job!”
Jeffrey Rosen, the No. 2 at the Justice Department, will take over as acting attorney general when Mr. Barr leaves on Dec. 23.
Chinese exports to the U.S. climbed 46.1 percent in November to a record $51.98 billion, defying the expectations of American politicians who had predicted that the pandemic would be a moment to reduce trade with China.
Despite President Trump’s restrictions on Chinese goods, including tariffs on more than $360 billion worth of imports, 
Consumer demand is so strong that it has overwhelmed the capacity of the cargo industry. The surge in shipments is clogging many supply chains, snarling major ports and delaying delivery of holiday gifts by up to several weeks. Above, cargo containers at the port of Oakland, Calif.
The British government is 
In other virus developments:
In New York City, 
South Korean officials 
Here are 
At a time when more people than ever are working from home, Google services — including Calendar, Gmail, Hangouts, Maps, Meet and YouTube — 
The company attributed the problem to an “authentication system outage.” Several of Google’s products have more than a billion global users.
As regulators around the world examine ways to curb Google’s power, there is increasing 
A new British study showed that 
It doesn’t have to be that way. Jane Brody, our Personal Health columnist, says that 
“No weights or machines are needed to strengthen postural muscles. Rather, the body’s own weight is engaged,” she writes.
Most of us know fruit flies as 
Work with these flies has shed light on diseases from Alzheimer’s to Zika, taught scientists about decision-making and circadian rhythms, and helped researchers win six Nobel Prizes.
That’s why the people who tend to the flies are so important. At the Bloomington Drosophila Stock Center, home to over 77,000 fruit fly strains, employees have worked through the lockdown and afterward to minister to the flies that underpin scientific research.
Senator Angus King, independent of Maine, made that proposal in a letter to the heads of Netflix, Amazon, Disney, WarnerMedia and Apple. They haven’t responded, but don’t hold your breath.
“It’s 
If you have a subscription, though, we have suggestions. Here are nine streaming movies 
And here is our 
The grand concert-hall celebrations planned for the German composer’s 250th birthday (the date is thought to be Dec. 16) have been largely silenced by the pandemic.
But the maestro’s works continue to dominate classical programming, and 
Here’s 
Have a harmonious evening.