
August is often a quiet month for publishers, but this year there’s a lot to look forward to: new books from Akwaeke Emezi and Daisy Johnson; a timely re-examination of William Faulkner, with a special focus on how he wrote about race; and an astrophysicist’s (surprisingly soothing) guide to the end of the universe as we know it.
Wilkerson, the Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist and author of “
A family in southeastern Nigeria confronts what little it knew of — and was willing to accept about — its son after his body is delivered to his mother’s doorstep. This mystery, by the author of “
El Chapo, the most famous drug trafficker of his generation, 
“In about five billion years, the Sun will swell to its red giant phase, engulf the orbit of Mercury and perhaps Venus, and leave the Earth a charred, lifeless, magma-covered rock.” That’s how Mack, a theoretical astrophysicist, begins her engrossing, elegant timeline of the cosmos. Despite the book’s sobering title, she sprinkles in delightful esoterica along the way, while providing a guide to some of the most plausible scenarios about the end of the universe.
Starting in the 1970s, according to Andersen, a “cultural U-turn” caused the nation to abandon the middle class, instead rewarding corporate interests and capitalist greed. The United States, he writes, might be “the first large modern society to go from fully developed to failing.” But for all his grim assessments, he offers solutions (including stronger unions and a universal basic income), and believes change is possible — so long as the left adopts tactics the right used decades ago.
In his National Book Award-winning book “
Edie is a Black woman in her 20s, an artist in Bushwick who is unfulfilled by virtually every part of her life. When she begins dating a white man in an open marriage, she becomes entangled in his family’s life — emotionally, physically and even economically.
It’s been almost 15 years since Meyer published “Twilight,” the best-selling young-adult vampire novel that sparked a worldwide interest in paranormal romance. Now she returns to the story of Edward Cullen and Bella Swan, but this time, she tells it from his point of view.
By 1976, Ronald Reagan’s political career appeared to be over. In Perlstein’s new book, the final volume of his series charting the ascendancy of the right in America, he traces Reagan’s political comeback and how he reinvigorated the Republican Party’s base with his pledge to “Make America Great Again.” Perlstein, an engaging storyteller, offers a clear guide to the intellectual and ideological debates of the time.
Faulkner’s enduring, ubiquitous quote that “the past is never dead” might be a fitting epitaph for this new book. In this timely re-examination, Gorra considers how Faulkner should be read in the 21st century, with a focus on the depiction of Black people and racism in his fiction.
With her debut novel “
The final volume in Smith’s seasonal quartet, set during the coronavirus pandemic, centers on Sacha and Robert, two siblings grappling with the awakening of their political and cultural consciousness. As she did in the series’ earlier books, Smith balances timely real-life issues (Brexit, the refugee crisis, Trump) with her characters’ inner lives — and characters from the previous books reappear, too.
Macdonald’s debut, “