
Do you typically follow what happens in the British royal family? What have you read, watched or heard about Prince Harry and Meghan, also known as the Duke and Duchess of Sussex? What is your initial reaction to the news of their 
In “
In a year of gut punches to Britain’s royal family, 
It was an extraordinary retreat by the popular prince and his American wife, who had grown increasingly isolated within the House of Windsor since their wedding in 2018.
In a statement, the 
… While the language in the statement was mild and upbeat, the change that 
For the duke and duchess to forsake Britain and relinquish their royal duties, even for part of the year, will be a jolt to one of the nation’s most immutable institutions. It continues the convention-defying ways of Prince Harry, who enthralled millions of Britons, and angered some others, when he and 
Buckingham Palace issued a terse two-line statement Wednesday evening, suggesting the couple’s announcement had caught the royal family off guard, if not totally blindsided it.
The article closes with this quotation from Prince Harry:
In recent months, the prince, whose public image was forever fixed for millions as the somber boy walking with his father and brother behind his mother’s casket, lashed out in a way that left some royal watchers puzzled.
“I’ve seen what happens when someone I love is commoditized to the point that they are no longer treated or seen as a real person,” Prince Harry wrote. “I lost my mother and now I watch my wife falling victim to the same powerful forces.”
To learn more, take a look at “
Specific reasons mentioned on their website include enabling themselves “to earn a professional income, which in the current structure they are prohibited from doing,” and handling their own media relations. On that second point, they particularly emphasized their decision to operate independent of the so-called Royal Rota — a key feature of royal family press relations that grants perpetual special access to journalists from seven British publications, including some tabloids.
Harry has long been critical of the British press. In October, he and Meghan initiated legal proceedings against the publishers of multiple British newspapers. He explained their decision 
And let’s not forget the 2017 
More Britons currently appear to have a view on Megxit than they did on the royal wedding itself.
At first, there were clear and loud rumblings of support. Then a few questions arose about cash, given that quite a lot of it had been thrown about in the last few years. The wedding. The house. The bodyguards.
What really roused Brits was the statement from the palace, which implied that couple had not fully discussed their retreat from royal life with the queen, whom we love. How dare they?
The term “Megxit” got a lot of airtime. “
Mixed? Very positive around the birth of baby Archie. Less positive around all the private jet hopping last summer. But most Brits haven’t been paying much attention. Between the recent general election, Australia being on fire and Brexit, the prospect of Megxit had not crossed many people’s minds.
Now that you have a bit of context, what do you think of Prince Harry and Meghan’s decision to “step back” as “senior members” of the royal family? What about their decision to spend time in both England and North America? What factors do you think may have propelled them to make this decision? Do you agree or disagree with their choice?
What do you think of the “terse two-line statement” from Buckingham Palace in response? Why does the couple’s decision raise so many questions and issues for the royal family?
Why do you think so many people — even those who never paid attention to the royal family — are so interested in this story? What seems significant to you about the announcement and the reactions?
The hashtag 
Prince Harry and Meghan have been criticized for seeking privacy. For example, the 
In “
What other questions or reactions does this story raise for you? What do you predict will happen in the coming weeks and months as a result? 
Students 13 and older are invited to comment. All comments are moderated by the Learning Network staff, but please keep in mind that once your comment is accepted, it will be made public. 