
The 
The Pfizer vaccine has already been given to people in Bahrain and Britain. Canada approved it on Wednesday. Above, a nurse preparing a vaccine dose in Glasgow.
The 
The 
The country is recording 
We 
The recent coronavirus surge is taking a toll on jobs. More than 947,000 workers filed for state unemployment benefits last week, 
With nearly half of his cabinet and many key White House jobs announced, the Biden 
Mr. Biden today chose 
The president-elect is also facing one of the first tests of his relationship with the party’s more liberal wing: Congressional Democrats are 
The blockbuster offering came a day after DoorDash, a food delivery start-up, also defied gravity on its first day of trading by surging 86 percent. Airbnb’s offering raised $3.5 billion, compared with DoorDash’s $3.4 billion, making Airbnb the biggest I.P.O. this year.
2020 has been the busiest year for U.S. public offerings since 1999. And this week’s market debuts have raised talk of a new stock market bubble, with investors driving valuations of unprofitable start-ups to levels that seem divorced from reality.
Countless ancient redwoods, hundreds of giant sequoias and more than one million Joshua trees burned in this summer’s wildfires. 
Each of these species already faced dangers, but this year’s wildfires, fueled by a century’s worth of forest mismanagement and the quickening pace of global warming, threatened them like never before. “It’ll never come back like it was,” one botanist said. “Not with climate change.”
After last year’s catastrophic wildfires in Australia, the 
The credit card companies had started investigations this week into their financial ties with MindGeek, the parent company of Pornhub.
Nearly seven million videos are posted on Pornhub each year. Although the vast majority of them probably depict consensual acts, 
It was the second time in three weeks that Air Force bombers had conducted long-range 
Separately, 
And in Lebanon, a judge 
Contingency measures published by the European Commission today would essentially keep regulations in place for air and road travel and fishing rights for six months.
At a meeting in Brussels, European Union leaders reached an 
Chess.com has added more than 2 million players since the Netflix series about a troubled chess prodigy navigating a male-dominated tournament world debuted in late October. 
The series makes chess “look very glamorous and very luxurious, that women can be rock stars,” said Bianca Mitchell, a 15-year-old who started playing the game in the first grade. She now wants to be a chess grandmaster.
Fans of a real-life pop star have another reason to be excited: 
Having trouble sleeping during the pandemic? A change of diet might help. 
Some studies have ties to the food industry and you may want to take those with a grain of salt. The world’s largest marketer of kiwis funded research that showed eating two kiwis an hour before bedtime improved sleep.
In general, clinical trials have found that carbs have a significant impact on sleep. People tend to fall asleep much faster when they consume a diet high in complex carbohydrates compared with when they consume a high-fat or high-protein diet.
Have a restful night.