
That was Senator Kamala Harris of California speaking alongside 
In his introduction at the event, Mr. Biden stressed that they shared similar ideals that would guide their campaign. He presented her as a historic candidate and 
Ms. Harris sought to cast the blame for both the death toll from the coronavirus — 
But just as Ms. Harris joined the Democratic ticket, Mr. Trump wasted no time calling her “nasty” and praising the “suburban housewife” he says will vote for him. His views are anachronistic, 
The standoff between the White House and Democratic leaders in Congress over a new coronavirus aid bill 
Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California and Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, spoke on the phone on Wednesday for the first time since talks fell apart last week. 
A Georgia school district, which includes Hasty Elementary, above, ordered 
By contrast, New Jersey is giving districts the option to offer 
We’re starting a coronavirus schools newsletter with the latest updates on reopenings and tips for remote learning. 
Despite some initial misgivings, it is widely accepted now that wearing a face covering in public is 
In Miami, officials have issued more than $14,000 in fines to people who refuse to 
And with or without a mask, you may want to think twice about going out to eat: Public health experts are warning of clusters of Covid-19 infections 
What began as a legitimate fund-raising campaign for the Save the Children charity is now being promoted by a group who believe in a global conspiracy involving a ring of Satan-worshiping, child-molesting criminals led by prominent Democrats.
Dozens of QAnon-affiliated candidates are running for office this year, with 
Most illegal firearms in Britain still come from Europe. But with Brexit, as borders with the E.U. become more tightly regulated, the illegal gun trade from America could accelerate, especially given the Trump administration’s broad support for the gun industry. Above, the National Ballistics Intelligence Service in Birmingham, England.
A day after the Big Ten and Pac-12 conferences revealed they would postpone their seasons until at least the spring semester, the Big 12, which includes Oklahoma and Texas, above last October, said it 
The decision left three of the sport’s most influential leagues — the Big 12, the Atlantic Coast and Southeastern conferences — planning to pursue a football season in some of the nation’s most virus-ridden states.
Beginning with a modest chain of drive-in movie theaters, Mr. Redstone fought tooth and nail to amass a domain that also included Paramount, MTV, Simon & Schuster, Blockbuster and a host of cable channels. An unflinching negotiator, Mr. Redstone, pictured in 1994, wrote in his autobiography: “I believe in taking every penny off the table.”
Our media reporter 
The night garden offers a whole different world to discover, filled with organisms that use the cover of darkness as a tool to avoid predation. Just ask our garden expert, Margaret Roach, who writes about 
She spoke with a field biologist about their value to the ecosystem. Above, a tiny plume moth.
And big, leafy viburnum bushes have lined yards in the U.S. and Europe for decades. But once the flowers of some varieties fade, the shrub makes a shiny, brilliant blue fruit — a rarity in nature. Scientists, much to their surprise, recently 
Nearly 250 million years ago, a reptile known as Tanystropheus patrolled the shorelines and coves of the Alps. The 20-foot creature, like the one rendered above, had a toothy head and body echoing that of modern monitor lizards, but 
The question of how Tanystropheus used its ridiculously long neck has puzzled paleontologists for over 100 years. New research shows evidence that its body was primed for aquatic hunting: A skull reconstruction revealed nostrils positioned on the top of the snout, like a crocodile, and long, curved fangs.
The reptiles probably ambushed prey in murky water, lunging forward with its long neck to snap up fish.
Have a remarkable night.