
LONDON — For us, it was supposed to be France — a big house in a soporific Breton village, with 16 members of my partner’s family. Her bon vivant father, who recently completed chemotherapy, had paid for the rental to celebrate with two weeks surrounded by grandkids and half-empty bottles of Beaujolais. Everyone had been looking forward to it all year. It is only in the past two weeks, after France announced 
The summer holidays are looking like a bust, and the economic implications are myriad and grim. In France, Italy and Spain, tourism accounts for 
All of which means that if the summer is to hold anything approximating a vacation, we are probably going to have to look closer to home. In an attempt to wring something positive out of this interlude, I’ve found myself hoping that this prospect might foreshadow something necessary, perhaps even cathartic. Could a summer in which everyone is stuck at home within their own borders, like argumentative relatives locked in a room to hammer out their differences, actually reap some benefits?
My own country, Britain, offers something of a test case for the rapid evolution of the summer holiday, and for its unforeseen social ramifications. As the first country to industrialize, Britain was also the first country to develop leisure habits that would grow into the global, multitrillion-dollar travel industry of today. As early as the 1700s, the Georgian middle classes developed a belief in the curative properties of “sea-bathing”: In summer, they descended on fishing ports like Brighton and Margate, where “dippers” helped to plunge well-covered customers into the frigid waters of the English Channel.
In the decades that followed, the allure of the seaside democratized in tandem with the growth of industry and the consumer revolution. As more and more people of every socio-economic class looked to the coast for their weekend down time, the social landscape they brought with them — sand castles, donkey rides, fish and chips on the pier — became a motif of British culture.
The age of mass tourism as we know it today dawned in 1938 with the passing of the Holidays With Pay Act, which introduced the statutory provision of annual leave to the British workplace for the first time. From the end of World War II onward, the country celebrated peacetime by heading for its sand and pebble beaches as never before. In 1949, 
Theirs was a boom mirrored across other Western democracies. In America, 
In Britain, the golden years of domestic tourism would be fleeting. On 
By the turn of the millennium, a new generation of budget carriers, notably easyJet and Ryanair, had unlocked the floodgates, turning the continent into a year-round buffet of winter sports, Mediterranean sun and whirlwind weekends. Bognor Regis, it transpired, could not compete with Benidorm.
Meanwhile, Britain’s seaside towns have become synonymous with poverty and decline. The skeletons of Victorian pleasure piers now rust beside a moribund infrastructure of bingo halls, amusement arcades and crazy golf. Last year, a parliamentary report on 
In Jaywick Sands, a suburb of Clacton-on-Sea in Essex that bears the unwanted mantle of Britain’s most impoverished neighborhood, 57 percent of the former holiday resort’s population live in “
Today, as we reorient to a world rendered immobile, I’m struck by the idea that the need to reanimate these forgotten regions dovetails with a more global imperative: the urgent need to travel less. Before the pandemic hit, my reflections on the difficult ethics of tourism in 2020 mostly circled the subjects of 
At the end of last year, 
The fact that so many of us now spend our moments of maximum happiness overseas has surely played a role in deepening this fault line. And many of the pleasurable experiences of social intermingling that might once have offered a counterbalance, like a day out at the seaside, have been sacrificed to consumer choice.
I am not so naïve as to pretend that a summer spent at home will instigate some halcyon redux of the faded seaside’s 1950s heyday. Neither can it in any way compensate for the lost joy and economic devastation wrought by the suspension of international travel.
Nonetheless, once various destinations give the green light to domestic visitors (and in Britain, at least, 
Henry Wismayer (