
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering Western intelligence agencies’ belief that 
President Volodymyr Zelensky pressed the U.S. and its Western allies today to share the information indicating that a Ukrainian airliner that crashed shortly after takeoff in Iran on Wednesday had been shot down. 
Intelligence officials said on Thursday that they 
An Iranian government spokesman denied responsibility, calling the suggestion “a big lie.” Tehran has invited American transportation officials to help investigate.
The aircraft manufacturer’s employees discussed deceiving federal regulators and joked about potential flaws in the 737 Max, 
“Would you put your family on a Max simulator trained aircraft? I wouldn’t,” one employee said to a colleague in an exchange that came before two deadly crashes involving the model. 
The messages threaten to further complicate Boeing’s relationship with the Federal Aviation Administration.
The speaker hasn’t said when she’ll send impeachment articles against President Trump to the Senate, but lawmakers and aides suggested the House 
After calls from lawmakers in both parties to deliver the charges, Ms. Pelosi said on Thursday, “I will send them over when I’m ready, and that will probably be soon.”
American defenses have vastly improved in the four years since Russian hackers and trolls worked to sway the 2016 presidential election, but interviews with dozens of officials and experts 
Hackers are “refreshing” their operations, one American intelligence official told The Times, and working harder to cover their tracks.
With the partisan divide in the U.S., the fear of hacking could be dangerous enough: “You don’t actually have to breach an election system in order to create the public impression that you have,” said Laura Rosenberger, the director of a group that tracks Russian disinformation efforts. “Chaos is the point.”
Many scientists and public-health experts believe that “gene drives” — which insert a chosen gene into an organism’s offspring — 
But the tool has yet to be tested outside the lab, and there are many unknowns. Could a gene drive stop one virus, for example, only to open the way for a more virulent one?
Together, they form a giant reservoir storing carbon dioxide. 
Boreal forests are distinct from tropical forests, which are closer to the Equator. Boreal forests lock away about 
These are tough times for forests, though. Think about the fires in Australia and the ones last year in the Amazon. Agriculture, logging and urbanization are taking a toll, too. 
That brings us to single-use paper products, like paper towels, especially the ones sold in North America. Their fiber is often taken from boreal forests, so reducing home use can help protect trees. 
In Asia, cloth towels are more common, but 
That’s it for this briefing. Have a great weekend.
— Chris