
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering the latest in the 
The World Health Organization is holding a meeting today as Chinese officials said the death toll from the coronavirus has climbed to 1,016, with 42,638 confirmed cases in total. 
In Britain, where four more cases linked to a cluster of transmissions at a ski resort in France were confirmed, the health authorities on Monday declared the virus 
Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer, Chancellor Angela Merkel’s handpicked successor, said on Monday 
A Russian military court on Monday 
The seven men were accused of plotting attacks ahead of the World Cup soccer tournament in Russia and presidential election in 2018. All denied the charges.
Above, lightning over Pretoria, South Africa, in 2016. Researchers said an increase in temperatures in Africa over the past seven decades was leading to 
In a continent that already experiences destructive storms and has many of the world’s lightning hot spots, that can mean more fatalities and more economic damage.
Short answer: Yes, absolutely. There are many, many things that could go wrong. But as some of our colleagues have pointed out, New Hampshire has a history of running elections smoothly, whereas the Iowa caucuses have now encountered problems in 
Last week, as the mess was unfolding in Iowa, a woman in Hampton, N.H., told me: “This is a national level campaign. You have all these years to get it straight and this is the embarrassment you’re causing the party?”
Some of us went to Iowa; most of the rest of us came to New Hampshire. And a handful did both. (Bless them!) The consensus among the people who have been to both places seems to be that the workroom at our hotel here in Manchester has windows, and is therefore far superior to the one in Des Moines, but the food options around our New Hampshire hotel are way more limited. I, personally, have already been to the Olive Garden next door twice.
That’s it for this briefing, my first solo. See you next time. 
— Sofia