
LONDON — Once upon a short time ago, the Duke and 
Then the couple shocked the nation and rattled the royals by announcing on 
By Friday, 
A lot has been written about the shocking move. But here’s a reminder of how we got to this point.
They described her as Prince Harry’s “
The prince soon 
That set the tone for the relationship between the couple and the tabloids: Harry, who had long blamed the paparazzi for the car crash in 1997 in Paris that killed his mother, Diana, Princess of Wales, had drawn a royal line.
“It is not right that a few months into a relationship with him that Ms. Markle should be subjected to such a storm,” the statement read. “This is not a game — it is her life and his.”
More evidence of their relationship emerged: They’re 
“We’re two people who are really happy and in love,” she said.
Two months later, they announced their engagement. “I think both of us were totally surprised by the reaction, after the five to six months we had to ourselves, of what actually happened from then,” Prince Harry said in their interview with the BBC. 
A week later, The Daily Mail published a story about Ms. Markle’s supposed ambitions that included racist tropes. “Now that’s upwardly mobile! How in 150 years, Meghan Markle’s family went from cotton slaves to royalty via freedom in the U.S. Civil War … while her dad’s ancestors included a maid at Windsor Castle,” 
But the world watched as the couple celebrated 
It was heralded 
Ahead of the wedding, the tabloids turned a relentlessly unflattering lens on Meghan Markle’s father, Thomas, a 73-year-old former Hollywood lighting director who lived in Mexico. The theme: Would he or wouldn’t he attend the wedding? 
One tabloid got him to cooperate with staged photos. Then, The Daily Mail reported, accurately, that Ms. Markle’s father had decided to skip the ceremony and would not walk her down the aisle. 
Prince Charles ended up doing the honors.
But a steady stream of unsavory stories quoting Meghan’s half siblings — 
In October, it was revealed that 
Prince Harry — who had started legal proceedings against the owners of two British tabloids over accusations that 
There is a human cost to this relentless propaganda, specifically when it is knowingly false and malicious,” Prince Harry said, “and though we have continued to put on a brave face — as so many of you can relate to — I cannot begin to describe how painful it has been.
The Mail on Sunday said that it “stands by the story it published and will be defending this case vigorously.”
Amid tabloid rumblings, the royal couple announced 
But Prince Harry could barely contain his glee when he faced a news camera to announce 
The couple unfurled Archie 
Yes, 
In November 2018, Kensington Palace announced that the Duke and Duchess of Sussex would move 
The tabloids reveled in what they saw as a royal rift, branding Meghan as “demanding” and a “
In April, the tabloids seized on the cost of the refurbishment of Frogmore: 2.4 million pounds of taxpayers’ money, or more than $3 million, 
Rumors of a rift between the brothers grew stronger, fueled by images of their public appearances. For example, the brothers arrived separately for the service at St. George’s Chapel in Windsor on Easter Sunday; 
On June 20, 
In September, during an official tour of Africa, Prince Harry addressed his relationship with his brother in an ITV documentary.
“Inevitably stuff happens, but we’re brothers, we will always be brothers,” he said. “We are certainly on different paths at the moment, but I will always be there for him and I know he will always be there for me.”
But the interview that made Britain spill its collective tea came from Meghan.
“Not many people have asked if I’m O.K.,” the Duchess of Sussex said poignantly of adjusting to the pressures of her royal role, the harsh media coverage and her struggles as a new mother.
In November, it was announced that the Duke and the Duchess of Sussex, and their son, Archie, would not be spending Christmas with the rest of the royal family at Sandringham, the queen’s country retreat in eastern England. They instead took a holiday break in Canada with the duchess’s mother, Doria Ragland.
In the 
On Jan. 8, the couple announced their semi-resignation. The news spread like wildfire just as Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge and wife of Harry’s brother, celebrated her 38th birthday, on Jan. 9.
A divided nation digested the news that the couple were stepping back as senior members of the royal family and striving to become financially independent. 
The general sense was that the couple had unleashed a potentially existential crisis for the royal family, quickly nicknamed “Megxit,” for which the 93-year-old queen and Harry’s father, Prince Charles, were trying to find a “workable solution” 