
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering mounting evidence that 
An Iranian missile 
“We recognize that this may have been done accidentally,” the Canadian leader, Justin
A commander of the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps declared that Iran’s armed forces 
Separately, President Hassan Rouhani of Iran warned Prime Minister Boris Johnson of Britain that there would be further action “if the U.S. makes another mistake,” according to a statement from Mr. Rouhani’s office. 
But another Iranian military leader said his country’s missile attacks targeting Americans in Iraq this week had not been intended to kill anyone.
It was part of a host of comments that at times sent a mixed message, and at other times seemed to convey a harsher tone than the country took earlier this week, when its foreign minister said Iran had 
Analysts warned that Iran’s goal of pushing the U.S. out of the Middle East would most likely continue. 
As the 
Just a year ago, President Tsai Ing-wen’s party suffered a humiliating defeat. Now, she has 
The tough policies have only pushed the people of Taiwan away, with barely 1 percent of the population favoring unification with the mainland “as soon as possible,” according to an 
Our Travel section has released 
Among them, above from left: The Kimberley region of Australia; Sabah, Malaysia; the British Virgin Islands; and Kampot, Cambodia. 
Together, they form a giant reservoir storing carbon dioxide. 
Boreal forests are distinct from tropical forests, closer to the Equator. Boreal forests lock away about 
These are tough times for the world’s forests, though. Think about the fires in Australia and the ones last year in the Amazon. Agriculture, logging and urbanization are taking a toll, too. 
That brings us to single-use paper products, like paper towels, especially the ones sold in North America. Their fiber is often taken from the boreal forest, so reducing home use can help protect the trees. 
In Asia, cloth towels remain the standard. But 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Melina