
Good morning.
We’re covering the first 
The 
The vaccine’s arrival in the U.S. — the country with by far the biggest coronavirus caseload — is happening amid fears that Americans will continue to crowd together indoors over the holiday season and fuel the surge in cases, hospitalizations and deaths.
Shipments of doses traveled by plane and guarded truck over the weekend to designated locations, mostly hospitals, in all 50 states. The 
Britain began inoculations last week; Canada will also deliver its first shots this week. Here’s 
Here are the 
Japan’s 
In the coming weeks, major airlines, including United, JetBlue and Lufthansa, plan to 
Bahrain said on Sunday that it 
Speaking at an online summit on the fifth anniversary of the Paris climate agreement, Xi Jinping, China’s leader, said on Saturday that by 2030, 
Carbon intensity is a measure of greenhouse gas emissions relative to economic activity. Meeting the goal would mean that as China’s economy grows, so would its emissions, but at a slower rate than before. Mr. Xi also said China would triple wind and solar power capacity to over one billion kilowatts and expand its forests.
The chief executive of ARG Outlier Media, which owns Republic TV, was accused of involvement in a scheme to falsely bolster ratings data at the right-wing news broadcaster. The 
In recent years, Republic TV has made a name for itself by embracing right-wing causes and aggressively backing Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s administration. But the network’s relationship with the local administration in Mumbai is more fraught.
Over the course of three years, Miriam Rodríguez captured nearly every member of the Mexican crew that abducted and murdered her 20-year-old daughter, Karen. On Mother’s Day, 2017, weeks after she had chased down one of her last targets, she was shot in front of her home and killed.
For many in the northern city of San Fernando, 
In recent months, two photo editors — David Furst of the International desk and Jeffrey Henson Scales from the Opinion section — reviewed around half a million published and unpublished photographs.
“I don’t know that I have ever come across a body of work that’s as complicated as this one,” David said.
In addition to an introduction written by Dean Baquet, The Times’s executive editor, the project includes firsthand accounts from photographers, who provide behind-the-camera context. There are always photographers around the world living the story they cover — under oppressive governments, or in residential neighborhoods that turn into battlefields of war — but in 2020, everyone lived it.
The first photo that appears was taken on Jan 1. Just seconds into 2020, in the heart of Times Square, the photographer Calla Kessler captured what was most likely the first 
Nearly every editor and writer who worked on The Year in Pictures had the same reaction to the celebratory scene in the frame: “These people had no idea what was coming.”
When asked what he wants readers to come away feeling, Jeffrey responded: “It was a long year, filled with heroics. And thus far, we’ve made it through. Be glad of that.”
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Carole