
In his first comments since Joe Biden was declared the winner, 
As the president continued to claim the election was stolen from him and vowed to pursue lawsuits in key swing states, 
At 
Independent scientists have cautioned against hyping early results from late-stage trials. Still, the development makes 
Pfizer plans to ask for emergency authorization of 
At the same time, President-elect 
In other virus developments:
At least 
Mr. Esper 
Mr. Esper had taken pains to hew to the Trump line during his nearly 16-month tenure. But concern over invoking the Insurrection Act to send troops to battle protesters across the country is deep in the Pentagon, and Mr. Esper ultimately opposed the move.
Though markets were already ahead before Pfizer’s vaccine announcement, shares surged for companies like airlines and cruise operators that would benefit from a post-pandemic normalcy.
Since President Trump took office, Big Business has been thrust into political issues as never before. But with Joe Biden now president-elect, 
In a statement to The Times, Joe Biden said 
He says he will re-enter the Iran nuclear deal, sign up for another five years of the only surviving nuclear arms treaty with Russia and double down on American commitments to NATO.
But allies concede they may never fully trust that the U.S. will not lurch back to building walls.
In other foreign policy spheres:
Many in Beijing believe that the 
Mr. Biden’s win means 
Both 
Mr. Trump’s defeat 
Eta came ashore at 11 p.m. Sunday in the middle Florida Keys, but the strongest winds and thunderstorms were northeast of its center, lashing the upper keys and Miami-Dade and Broward Counties overnight.
We still don’t know for sure how a Rudy Giuliani news conference on Saturday ended up in 
But after finding itself the subject of merciless mocking, the landscaping company is now capitalizing on it, selling patriotic-themed merchandise on its website.
The family-owned company reported on Twitter that the merchandise business — including a $5 sticker with the phrases “Make America Rake Again” and “Lawn and Order!” — was booming.
New research out of the Schuyler Mansion State Historic Site in Albany, N.Y., argues that our first Treasury secretary did indeed. Above, an entry in Alexander Hamilton’s cash book from March 23, 1793, listing a payment to Philip Schuyler, his father-in-law, for “2 Negro servants purchased by him for me.”
“
While the evidence isn’t new, the argument is forceful, experts say. “It just shows that the founders were nearly all implicated in slavery in some way,” according to a Harvard history professor.
Scientists increasingly believe that 
Their research shows that dogs are similar to us in important ways, like how they act as seniors and what happens in their aging DNA. They also share many of the same old-age ailments, like obesity, arthritis, hypothyroidism and diabetes. Above, the Border collies Miley and Tiara, who were part of a study of older dogs at Vienna’s University of Veterinary Medicine.
“One of the things that we’re really interested in is figuring out, first of all, whether there are things in the DNA of dogs that you can find that actually explain why some of them live a remarkably long time,” one of the researchers said.
If you’re a rock ’n’ roller in Los Angeles, and a 10-year-old prodigy in Ipswich, England, 
Dave Grohl, the Foo Fighters frontman and former Nirvana drummer, accepted that call to battle this summer from Nandi Bushell, who took up percussion at age 5.
Grohl conceded defeat after 
Have a loud and energetic evening.