
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering an intelligence warning of 
Russia is aiding President Trump in the 2020 election, intelligence officials warned the House Intelligence Committee 
Five people described the briefing to our reporters, who also learned that Mr. Trump had been angered by the briefing, saying Democrats would use it against him. 
Our reporters were told that Mr. Trump then berated Joseph Maguire, the acting director of national intelligence, for allowing the briefing. This week, Mr. Trump announced he was replacing Mr. Maguire with a political ally: Richard Grenell, his ambassador to Germany. Two administration officials said the timing was a coincidence.
That was Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, speaking about a gunman’s attack on 
The rampage took place deep in the heart of a region that prides itself on its diversity and tolerance.
Officials identified the gunman as a 43-year-old German who posted a racist video and screed online. Hours after the attack, he was found dead from a gunshot, along with his mother, at his home.
Regular worshipers said they were familiar with the suspect, and the authorities said they were not treating the stabbing as an act of terrorism.
Chinese officials announced on Friday that 889 new cases of the coronavirus had been reported in the previous 24 hours, raising the overall total above 75,000.
The new count came after the government changed its criteria for confirming cases of the virus for the second time in about a week. The government said that confirmation of cases in Hubei Province will require genetic testing, a process that is difficult to conduct and whose results are often wrong. Here are 
From its earliest days, Google urged employees to speak out. Now it appears to be clamping down. It has scaled back opportunities for employees to grill their bosses and tried to prevent discussions about labor rights.
Then, in November, Google fired at least four activists who had stepped forward to denounce its treatment of workers. We spoke to some of them, including Rebecca Rivers, above, 
We’re in the thick of the U.S. presidential election, with a few primaries and caucuses already completed and a slew of states set to vote in the coming weeks. 
I think that the combination of post-economic crisis, and a sense that there are parts of America that were still shaken by the economic crisis, I think a lot of Americans — more Americans than we understood at the time — were rattled and were looking for something dramatic.
There were [Times] reporters out in the country who were writing stories about what was going on in the country. But we didn’t elevate them and say, “Wait a minute, there’s something powerful going on here.” We didn’t see that.
We’ve brought in people from the business staff to go out to the country to talk about the effects of the economy. We are about to announce a plan to 
And I don’t think we’ve labeled any — the campaigns would disagree — but I don’t think we’ve made anybody feel like the inevitable candidate. Or the long shot. I am extremely proud of where our coverage is right now.
I do think that American journalism has a tendency to go for the easy version of what I call “sophisticated true objectivity.” And the easy version is: “OK, this guy said this. This guy said that. I’ll put them together. You decide.”
True objectivity is you listen, you’re empathetic. If you hear stuff you disagree with, but it’s factual and it’s worth people hearing, you write about it.
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time. 
— Alex