
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning. There are 50 days left until the end of the year.
We’re covering how
After setting off celebrations with its announcement that its coronavirus vaccine candidate was more than 90 percent effective in trials, Pfizer now faces an enormous challenge: actually disseminating the vaccine, which must be kept at minus 94 degrees Fahrenheit (minus 70 degrees Celsius).
While Britain has 
Here are the 
New York City’s mayor is on the brink of 
Hungary is 
A video of a man who 
Some Republicans are joining Democrats in showing concern over President Trump’s refusal to allow President-elect Joe Biden to proceed with the transition.
Several Senate Republicans, including Susan Collins, insisted that Mr. Biden should 
Democratic leaders warned that Mr. Trump’s stonewalling was damaging the country’s ability to deal with foreign leaders and the process of planning to handle the most high-risk period in the spread of the coronavirus.
As Prime Minister Boris Johnson of Britain attempts to negotiate a delicate post-Brexit trade agreement with the European Union, President Trump’s defeat has resulted in the loss of a powerful ally.
These shifting political forces came to a head on Wednesday in the sudden 
Speculation is also rife about the future of Mr. Johnson’s 
The ombudsman in the Australian state of Victoria is conducting an investigation into a strict, 
Washington is poised for another 180 on climate change. Having covered climate change policy since the George W. Bush administration, though, I’m used to whiplash.
Mr. Bush withdrew the United States from the Kyoto Protocol, the world’s first global climate treaty. Then his successor, Barack Obama, spent his two terms assuring the world that the United States was back, and ultimately helped to forge a new global climate accord in Paris. President Trump followed, pulling out of the Paris agreement and reversing many of Mr. Obama’s environmental protections. Now, President-elect Joe Biden says he’ll recommit to the Paris accord on Inauguration Day.
My colleague Lisa Friedman and I have spent the last three and a half years writing a string of what she calls “obituaries for Obama climate rules.” We expect to spend much of 2021 covering the rollbacks of the rollbacks.
There have always been pendulum swings of Washington, of course. But this isn’t just politics as usual. The nature of greenhouse gas pollution is that it’s cumulative, so the heat-trapping gases emitted as a result of the regulations Mr. Trump loosened or removed will remain for decades, regardless of changes in policy under Mr. Biden.
That’s it for this briefing. Have a restful weekend.
— Natasha