
Good morning.
We’re covering the business impact of the 
Businesses like Starbucks, Ikea, Ford and Toyota are 
It’s not clear how quickly these businesses will bounce back.
Tourism is also suffering. British Airways suspended all flights to the mainland, and United Airlines and Air Canada joined a growing number of carriers reducing service. Governments around the world are issuing travel warnings.
China has been the world’s largest source of tourism dollars, but it appears unlikely that Chinese tourists will spend what they typically do — $258 billion annually, nearly twice the tally of Americans.
Palestinian leaders 
Mahmoud Abbas, the 84-year-old leader of the Palestinian Authority, called the attempt to resolve generations of conflict between Israelis and Palestinians a “conspiracy” not worthy of serious consideration. “We say a thousand times over: no, no, no,” he said, speaking from Ramallah in the West Bank on Tuesday night. Protests broke out on the streets of Gaza and the West Bank.
Reaction from other Arab governments 
Republican leaders signaled that they were growing more confident they would be able to block new witnesses and documents in President Trump’s impeachment trial — and that they could 
The party’s 53 senators appeared to be falling into line, despite recent revelations from John Bolton, the former national security adviser, that undercut the president’s defense.
But the trial isn’t over yet: On Wednesday, after a week of silently hearing the case, senators began to cross-examine the legal teams representing the president and the House. Both sides used the opportunity to poke holes in their opponents’ cases. Follow along at nytimes.com.
Zulhumar Isaac, above, a young Uighur woman from Xinjiang Province, grew up in a family of model citizens — her mother was even a midlevel Communist Party member. But when the party started cracking down on Uighurs, her parents were detained.
Our writer spent nearly a year 
They’re 
Some protesters held a placard that read: “Dear Hindus, We rejected an Islamic state in 1947. Now it’s your turn to reject a Hindu state. Sincerely, Secular India.” That really spoke to me because 1947 was the partition, when Hindus in Pakistan decided to stay or flee to India, and Muslims in India had a similar choice.
India chose secularism in 1947. It was majority Hindu and said its strength was its diversity, and that it would embrace Christians and Muslims and Sikhs just as much as its Hindu citizens. 
Over all, India’s Muslim community has not been well organized in recent decades, but 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Melina