
LONDON — When 
At long last, many said in interviews, the couple might finally escape the abuse, much of it racially tinged, that has been heaped upon them by the British press, particularly the country’s raucous tabloids.
“Thank God they are free,” said Sanaa Edness, lifting her arms to the sky as she walked through Fordham Park in southeast London. “Nobody should tolerate bullying and abusive behavior because of the color of their skin. All of this is about her race. I know it because as a Caribbean woman who did not grow up here, I have experienced it myself.”
It wasn’t supposed to end up like this. 
Young black women with no particular interest in the royal family gathered around their television screens and watched with excitement as the beautiful biracial American actress walked down the aisle of St. George’s Chapel and took up her newly found status as the Duchess of Sussex. They hoped that her union with the popular prince would mark a new era for the royal family, one that would usher in fresh and more relatable values.
But even before the wedding, the 
 
And since the Daily Mail’s 2016 headline, “
After the couple married in 2018, and Ms. Markle officially joined the royal household, the tabloids shifted gears, presenting her as a termagant who shouted at her staff and brought her sister-in law Catherine, the Duchess of Cambridge, to tears. Some headlines referred to her as “
“They wanted to show her up as the angry black woman like a thorn against the sweet English rose petals that is Mrs. Kate,” Ms. Edness said.
The tabloids deny that their coverage shows racial bias, saying they have a right to scrutinize the couple when they are being supported by public funding.
“Most of the media is ignoring the whole racism factor that has clearly played a big role in the couple’s decision,” said Nadine Batchelor-Hunt, former president of Cambridge University’s Black and Minority Ethnic campaign.
“Racism issues are spoken about more in the popular discourse in the United States,” she continued. “People are more conscious of it, whereas here the black community is a lot smaller and it’s not really raised as a significant issue regularly.”
In the latest census in 2011, black residents made up only around 3 percent of Britain’s population, with 87 percent white and the rest from other ethnic groups. 
Ms. Batchelor-Hunt also pointed out that royal correspondents and commentators are predominantly white. “Many of them are unaware when they are being outright racist and how their comments become amplified across social media,” she said.
 
“In Britain’s rigid class society, there is still a deep correlation between privilege and race,”
In the interviews, a persistent theme was surprise that senior members of the royal family had not shown enough support for Meghan. Many said they have watched in astonishment as Buckingham Palace has 
“She didn’t get the support she needed from the royal family,” 
Ms. Lengolo said she was happy and relieved that the couple would finally be free of all the abuse and negativity. She could not understand why anyone was surprised by the announcement.
“These people needed to do this for the sake of their mental health and to protect their newborn son,” she said. “I support them 100 percent. I’m truly happy for them.”
Tabloid columnists expressed shock and outrage at the announcement by Prince Harry and the duchess on Wednesday, accusing them, among other things, of being
“I’ve seen some disgraceful royal antics in my time, but for pure arrogance, entitlement, greed and willful disrespect, nothing has ever quite matched the behavior of the ‘Duke and Duchess of Sussex,’” 
“I put inverted commas around those titles because I sincerely hope they won’t exist much longer.”
The popular black comedian Gina Yashere 
Ms. Lengolo’s 13-year-old daughter, Tshego, sees it differently. She idolizes Ms. Markle and hopes to be an actress in Los Angeles one day. She said that while she was disappointed the duchess would be distancing herself from the royal family, she was also proud of her for making such a “brave” and “powerful” decision.
“I think it’s just appalling how they can just judge someone by their skin tone,” Tshego said, her voice rising with emotion.
“Take Kate for example,” she continued. “She got married to a member of the royal family and we don’t hear much said about her. But all of a sudden, a person of color comes into the royal family and everyone just jumps and goes after her. If she was white, she wouldn’t be treated like this, and that is just the cold reality.”
Anna Schaverien contributed reporting.