
Good morning.
We’re covering China’s rollout of 
The Chinese government said on Thursday that it had 
The manufacturer, a state-controlled company called Sinopharm, said a vaccine candidate made by its Beijing Institute of Biological Products arm had an efficacy rate of 79 percent based on an interim analysis of Phase 3 trials. 
On Wednesday, 
Here are 
A significant subset of 
Millions more people in England were told they will be placed under 
The first U.S. case of the 
Chinese and European Union leaders 
But the landmark pact faces political opposition in Europe and Washington that could ultimately derail it. A large faction in the European Parliament opposes the accord because it does not do enough to stop human rights abuses in China.
It loosens restrictions imposed on European companies operating in China, and opens up China to European banks, which have struggled in recent years.
A mainland Chinese court on Wednesday sentenced Hong Kong protesters, who had been arrested by the Chinese authorities while fleeing the city by speedboat, 
The case of the 12 protesters was closely watched by Hong Kong’s beleaguered opposition movement. Their experience — which included being detained for months without charges — embodied Hong Kongers’ worst nightmare of being subjected to the mainland’s criminal justice system.
Family members denounced the proceedings as unjust. “We don’t really know what happened during the detention or during the trial — what kind of evidence was presented,” the sister of one activist said.
At just 12, Helena Zengel has already won the German equivalent of the Oscars. Now she has landed a starring role in “News of the World,” opposite Tom Hanks, whom she had never heard of before the film.
We 
Mentioned in 2,128 calls this year vs. 3 last year
14,655 calls vs. 8,528
175 vs. 16
450 calls vs. 152
That’s it for this briefing. There won’t be a newsletter tomorrow. We’ll be back in 2021. Happy New Year! Here’s hoping that the transition into the next year leaves you feeling a little lighter.
— Melina