
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering
A global stock market meltdown 
Here are the 
As the outbreak swept through Europe and the Middle East, Germany was 
An airstrike 
The Turkish military presence in northwest Syria is under skies dominated by Russian warplanes. Turkish officials have avoided blaming the Russian government for aggression, and Turkey retaliated against Syrian forces on Thursday.
The signing of a deal between the Taliban and the U.S. is expected to go ahead on Saturday, a major step toward peace for a country scarred by more than four decades of conflict.
A weeklong partial cease-fire was a prerequisite for the signing, and it has appeared to work, leading to as much as an 
British and E.U. trade talks were set for a rocky start on Monday. Prime Minister Boris Johnson of Britain 
For years, leaders of Australian rules football — the country’s national sport, as well as one of the most violent games in the world — have tried to play down the risks of long-term brain damage from the sport while seeking to prevent traumatic brain injuries. Above, a match in June.
But now that one of the game’s legends, Graham Farmer, was found to have had chronic traumatic encephalopathy, or C.T.E., it 
The question I posed was: Listen, peace means that, eventually, tens of thousands of Taliban fighters that are out there either lay down their arms or integrate into the United Afghan security force. That means you, a 21-year-old who has fought as a child soldier since you were 14 against these Taliban, will be sitting with them around the same dinner table. Are you ready for that?
They were like, “I hate their guts.” And a lot of them hadn’t digested that question. 
This war started largely as an American war. But in the second decade of it, this increasingly became a very localized Afghan-on-Afghan war — this became relatives on two different sides, on the government side and on the insurgent side.
The big question is, What is the process for undoing this hatred, this animosity that’s been so localized? The fear is there’s not going to be enough time and patience for that process. That’s going to require a lot of hand-holding and attention and time. Does the U.S. have the patience to stick around for that to complete in a proper way?
The whole past year of focusing on the potential for a resolution to the conflict has been refreshing in a lot of ways. The past seven years, a good chunk of it, I was reporting on a story that was a bleeding stalemate.
Every day, every week, we were reporting on death after death after death. It was frustratingly, heartbreakingly hopeless. It’s almost felt as though I’ve been an obituary writer; we were finding human stories to remind people that, hey, these 50 dead all had hopes and dreams and lives.
The past year, there was this opening that finally this conversation could turn. As a reporter, part of me almost feels as if it’s returning to a normal reporting job: politics, diplomacy, deals. The past week gave me an idea of what reporting on Afghanistan would be like if it were a more normal place.
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time. 
— Penn
• We’re listening to “