
BERLIN — Germany is troubled. Its democracy is being tested. Its two big traditional parties, right and left, are shrinking fast. Angela Merkel, its powerful chancellor of 14 years, is a lame duck.
So when her chosen successor, Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer, announced on Monday that she would step aside, it was Ms. Merkel’s defeat, too. And perhaps one for her country and all of Europe.
Monday’s announcement reinforced a profound sense of malaise and political limbo in Germany at a time when neighboring capitals are impatiently looking to Berlin for leadership in a post-Brexit Europe.
Now faced with a difficult succession struggle, the country is grappling with an uncomfortable sense of déjà-vu, as the growing power of the far right echoes the rise of the Nazis in the last century.
“We desperately need vision, we need a grand strategy, we need leadership,” said Andrea Römmele, professor of politics at the Berlin-based Hertie School of Governance. “But Germany is going to be busy with itself for the next year — it will be navel-gazing.”
“It’s dangerous,” she added.
But what was a defeat for Ms. Merkel and Ms. Kramp-Karrenbauer was a triumph for the far right.
Last Wednesday, a local chapter of their Christian Democratic Union 
The vote defied Ms. Kramp-Karrenbauer, national leader of the Christian Democrats, and exposed her lack of authority over her center-right party. It set off five days of political turmoil, culminating in Monday’s surprise announcement that she would step down as the party’s chief and its candidate to succeed Ms. Merkel as chancellor.
It also revealed the creeping influence of Alternative for Germany, known by its German initials as AfD, on the political direction of the country.
One way of looking at it, Ms. Römmele said, is: “The AfD has ousted the leader of the Christian Democrats.”
Ms. Kramp-Karrenbauer acknowledged as much on Monday.
“Any form of rapprochement with the AfD weakens the C.D.U.,” Ms. Kramp-Karrenbauer said in a news conference announcing her decision.
“We currently feel strong centrifugal forces in our society and in our party,” she warned. “We have to be strong, stronger than we are today.”
As events unfolded in recent days, that sense of urgency was shared by many Germans, who staged protests in major cities across the country where demonstrators chanted anti-fascist slogans. Newspaper headlines bemoaned “a coup,” commentators warned of a “pact with fascism” and a former interior minister spoke gravely of “a whiff of Weimar” hanging over the republic.
The Weimar Republic, Germany’s first, short-lived experience of democracy until it was abolished by the Nazis, has become a popular reference point in the current Germany.
Prosperous, powerful and respected, the Germany of the 2020s is not the Germany of the 1920s, but some parallels are noteworthy. Then as now, democracy came under attack from far right terror and political assassinations; last year’
The vote in Thuringia carried its own historic analogy: It was there, in the dying days of the Weimar Republic more than 90 years ago, that the Nazis first won power locally, before going on to win nationally.
And they did so with the help of conservative parties.
That is also why the decision by Ms. Kramp-Karrenbauer, 57, to step aside raised uncomfortable questions about the direction the Christian Democrats will take after Ms. Merkel, 65, leaves power next year.
For now, the party is seriously divided between its more conservative members who want to join forces with the far right, and those like Ms. Kramp-Karrenbauer who want to draw a red line against any collaboration.
At a local level there is increasing pressure on Christian Democratic leaders to cooperate with the AfD. Not doing so, the AfD argues, ignores the will of the people.
Alternative for Germany was quick to hail Ms. Kramp-Karrenbauer’s resignation as a victory. Alexander Gauland, a senior party leader, welcomed the announcement as a sign that there was no longer a consensus inside the Christian Democrats on isolating the AfD.
“It is completely nonsensical and delusional not to want to work with the AfD in the long term,” Mr. Gauland said. “Her party grass roots have long understood this.”
More liberal voices argue that the country’s traditional parties, left and right, need to find common cause to protect democracy, rather than sparring and playing politics for short-term gains as they seek to hold on to power.
Even temporary alliances with the far right have the effect of legitimizing and empowering it, they argue.
“The conservatives of the Weimar Republic thought they could use Hitler. In truth, he was using them,” said a recent editorial by the weekly magazine Der Spiegel.
“They were in the final stage of democracy’s demise without even realizing it,” it continued. “Comparisons like this are inherently imperfect, but it can’t hurt to view the current situation as an early phase like the one experienced a century ago.”
Adding to the dangers is the vacuum of authority that is taking shape as traditional parties weaken. Paradoxically, early elections, ahead of next year’s scheduled ballot, look less likely in the wake of the current upheaval.
Both Ms. Merkel’s Christian Democrats and her coalition partners, the left-wing Social Democrats, are so feeble that they would stand to lose, potentially dramatically, if elections were held now.
But a drawn out political limbo carries risks, too.
“There is a danger that an even bigger power vacuum is forming,” said Annalena Baerbock, co-leader of the progressive Greens, which have been rising in the polls as a clear counterweight to the AfD. The conservatives, she said, “need to clarify how they can ensure a stable government.”
Some of the Christian Democrats’ problems were self-inflicted.
Ms. Kramp-Karrenbauer, who will remain defense minister, was chosen as leader of Ms. Merkel’s conservative party in December 2018 and had been 
Her victory at the time, over two more conservative men, had been seen as an endorsement of Ms. Merkel’s liberal legacy — and a mandate to preserve it.
But it was a very narrow victory, and in the 14 months since, Ms. Kramp-Karrenbauer has not only failed to win over skeptics in her party, she has also lost the support of some erstwhile allies and has seen her popularity in opinion polls erode.
In a series of gaffes she managed to offend many people, including the transgender community and YouTube-watching youths.
She said Monday that she would remain party leader until a replacement — and candidate for chancellor — can be chosen at a party congress in December.
Several potential candidates are waiting in the wings, chief among them Friedrich Merz, who narrowly lost to Ms. Kramp-Karrenbauer in 2018 but is popular with the Christian Democrats’ conservative wing.
Mr. Merz, who once voted against criminalizing rape within marriage, said this month that he would step down from his job in finance to “serve the country” more fully.
Another potential contender is Armin Laschet, the centrist leader of North-Rhine Westphalia, who is seen as the candidate of continuity and someone who would find it easy to cooperate with the Greens, a possible coalition partner. 
In the more conservative wing of the Christian Democrats, Ms. Kramp-Karrenbauer’s resignation was welcomed.
Hans-Georg Maassen, a former chief of the intelligence service who resigned in 2018 after his 
“The right decision,” he 
Christopher F. Schuetze contributed reporting.