
Good morning.
We’re covering 
In a video message from the Walter Reed military medical complex, President Trump said he was “starting to feel good” but acknowledged that the coming days would reveal the severity of his coronavirus infection.
“You don’t know, over the next period of a few days, I guess that’s the real test,” he said in the 
The White House and the president’s doctor have been sending mixed messages about the president’s situation. On Sunday, his medical team acknowledged delivering an 
The doctors said that Mr. Trump had a “high fever” on Friday, and that his oxygen levels had dropped on Friday and again on Saturday.
Those details, along with the disclosure that Mr. Trump is on the steroid dexamethasone, suggest that his illness has progressed beyond a mild case of Covid-19.
Here are our 
In other virus developments:
With coronavirus infections emerging in President Trump’s inner circle, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo will 
More than 
Millions in South Korea canceled family gatherings during this year’s 
The U.S. and India have taken their shared anger toward Beijing and forged 
But social justice advocates worry that the Trump administration is turning a blind eye to India’s rights abuses against Muslims under Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
Kenzo Takada, whose exuberant prints helped bring Japanese fashion to the world, 
The cause was complications of the coronavirus, a spokeswoman for the designer said, adding that he had been sick for a few weeks.
Mr. Takada, who was generally referred to only as Kenzo, shook up the established French fashion world after arriving from Japan in 1964. That he died in the middle of a Paris Fashion Week that has been struggling to go on despite the pandemic seemed symbolic.
More than 57,000 people have died from the coronavirus in Britain and new cases are again on the rise. Yet many Londoners are flouting rules aimed at preventing the spread. Above, sheltering from the rain in London’s Soho on Saturday.
Our European economics correspondent asks how a city that rallied in the face of the German Blitz turned into one 
Almost exactly 35 years ago, 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Carole