
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering the fourth weekend of 
Tens of thousands of protesters 
Defying government warnings, protesters in Minsk paraded up to lines of riot police officers, shouting, “Shame!” and “Go away.” They waved red and white flags, formerly the national flag until Mr. Lukashenko replaced it a year after he took office with a more Soviet-looking standard.
Nearly 300 people were arrested during protests in Hong Kong on Sunday, the scheduled date for a legislative election. 
The election was postponed for one year because of the pandemic, but many in the pro-democracy camp accused the government of stalling to avoid the defeat of establishment candidates. The protests were also an expression of public anger at a draconian security law imposed by Beijing that is silencing dissent.
Britain has recorded a huge increase in the number of people testing positive for coronavirus, with 2,988 reported cases on Sunday, the highest daily total since May 23, when the country was still in lockdown. The bulk of the new cases was in England, with 208 cases recorded in Scotland and 98 in Wales. The total number of deaths rose by two to 41,551.
Here are our 
In other pandemic developments:
Many experts are 
The 
Melbourne, Australia’s second-largest city, on Sunday extended its lockdown by two weeks until at least Sept. 28. The state of Victoria, the center of Australia’s worst outbreak, has been under lockdown since early August.
In a galaxy far, far away, 
Astronomers reported on Wednesday that they had detected the loudest, most massive and most violent collision yet between two Goliaths of darkness. (The actual moment of the crash was some seven billion years ago.) That short signal from long ago has left astrophysicists with new questions about how black holes form and grow.
Led by the Times editors Lauren Katzenberg and Dan Saltzstein, the project sought to push beyond the “typical, expected World War II coverage,” Mr. Saltzstein said. The Times invited readers who had served in the war, or whose family members had, to share stories and photographs via a form on The Times’s website, reaping about 500 responses. “It was just really incredible to get such a response, and to read everyone’s stories,” Ms. Katzenberg said.
The number of people who could still provide eyewitness accounts is diminishing all of the time, Mr. Saltzstein said, adding, “This is probably the last chance we’re going to be able to hear from them.”
Even after women’s track and field was introduced at the 1928 Amsterdam Olympics, cultural dismissiveness persisted for decades. “They were not used to it,” Blankers-Koen said of her detractors, “but I was not listening to them. I did what I wanted to do.”
That’s it for this briefing. Have a great start to the week.
— Natasha