
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering a coronavirus
Health officials on Sunday said 
New Zealand said in March that it had stamped out the virus after strict lockdown measures were put in effect, and there has been no community transmission since. There are still 23 active cases in managed isolation, according to the Health Ministry.
Public life has resumed for many people in the country, as they go to restaurants, bars and sporting events. But experts caution that letting down their guard now could lead to future outbreaks.
Here are 
France is 
A flurry of recent studies has revealed that a large proportion of the population — in some places, 20 to 50 percent of people — 
Hong Kong and Chinese officials by turns condemned and 
The officials dismissed the possible impact of the penalties, while also calling them “barbaric interference” in China.
U.S.-China relations are at a low point, and the sanctions follow the Trump administration’s decision on Thursday to penalize TikTok and WeChat, two of the most successful apps to come out of China.
Demonstrators and security forces 
By nightfall, protesters had stormed three government ministries, a handful of legislators had resigned and the prime minister had called for early elections. It was a sign that the crisis could shift the political system.
Many protesters considered the blast, which killed at least 154 people and displaced hundreds of thousands, to be another sign of the negligence of the country’s leaders. Lebanon was already grappling with a sinking economy and soaring inflation and unemployment, as well as a spike in coronavirus cases. The U.S. and France are sending aid.
Clothing sales fell by 79 percent in the U.S. in April, the largest slump on record. But purchases of sweatpants were up by 80 percent.
Our reporter spent months looking at 
The 10 months I spent learning the basics of being a bomb squad technician in the early 2000s became an asset when the first videos emerged on Tuesday of the explosions on Beirut’s waterfront.
I watched and rewatched the videos for clues about what might have happened, texted buddies I’d served with and posted queries in a couple of Facebook groups that were open only to current and former bomb techs.
We observed footage of two separate events. The first was a fire with white smoke and small pop-pop-pop explosions, like firecrackers, going off in the blaze. The second was an explosion with an eruption of reddish-black smoke, sending a powerful shock wave through the city. While social media ran wild with speculation, we stuck to what we knew: analyzing explosives and measuring their destructive effects.
To gauge the expected blast and fragmentary effects of exploding munitions, we were trained to determine first which explosive material was present and then calculate its comparative weight in TNT to use as a common reference point. After that, the rest is simple math. But for ammonium nitrate, a fertilizer stored in bulk, there is no simple textbook answer.
There were multiple factors to consider — including how the fertilizer might have degraded after years in relatively open storage near the water and whether there were other compounds present that may have contributed to the blast — so I had to interpret them as best I could.
The 
My 40 percent figure seems to have held up, given the video evidence I’ve seen so far. In much smaller quantities, burning ammonium nitrate might not explode. But similar incidents around the world have shown that when thousands of tons of it catch fire in a contained environment, the additional heat and pressure can lead to a mass detonation.
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Melina