
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering 
Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany on Wednesday 
Germany is experiencing 
Germany emerged from the first wave of the virus with 
Here are 
Of the thousands of Britons who 
Canada has 
The United Arab Emirates was the 
After more than 18 months of investigation, federal regulators and more than 40 U.S. states 
The lawsuits are the latest sign that regulators are becoming 
Nearly 
Tigrayans gave accounts to Times journalists of 
In the U.S., where regulators have been frustrated with AstraZeneca’s approach to releasing data, approval for the vaccine hangs in the balance, potentially putting the lives of thousands of Americans at risk.
Our reporters pieced together the series of communication errors and delayed trials that led to the drugmaker’s 
Gregory Poland of the Mayo Clinic, who is also editor in chief of the journal Vaccine, described the vaccine “as nothing short of dizzying.”
“We were all prepared to see something like 50 to 70 percent efficacy, something like that. And to be in excess of 90 percent, 95 percent, puts it on par with the best vaccines that have ever been developed — and with apparent acceptable short-term safety. I think this is really going to have a profound effect on the field of vaccinology. I hate to overuse the word ‘paradigm-breaking,’ but it is, in many ways.”
“The only certain way, given what we know about the vaccine now, to get society back to being able to function is to have this be a less-severe disease,” said Marc Lipsitch, from the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. He added, “The way you do that is to make the people in whom it’s severe no longer vulnerable.”
Though communities of color have disproportionately borne the brunt of coronavirus cases in the United States, many in those communities are particularly wary of receiving the vaccine.
To change that, says James Hildreth, the president of Meharry Medical College, a historically Black medical school in Nashville, the message had to come from the right person. “We identified trusted messengers in those communities,” he said. “We empowered them with the information they needed. They needed to believe it first — and accept it first — and they were the ones that delivered the messages that turned out to be quite effective.”
That’s all for today. See you on Friday.
— Natasha