
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering record
Officials recorded at least 40,000 new coronavirus cases on Monday, marking 
Infections in the country have jumped in recent weeks as a nationwide lockdown was lifted. Some states, including Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh, reimposed restrictions to try to bring the virus under control.
Still, new hot spots seem to emerge faster than they can be contained, and researchers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology now estimate that India will be the world’s worst-hit country by the end of next year.
Here are 
Two potential vaccines against the virus, from Oxford University and the Chinese company CanSino, 
Hong Kong reported 73 new cases on Monday, 
In the U.S., many business leaders are steeling themselves for 
Ant Group, the financial affiliate of the e-commerce giant Alibaba, said Monday that it was 
The I.P.O. is expected to be big — the company was valued at $150 billion two years ago — and it offers a ray of light for Hong Kong, which has struggled under the pandemic and a new national security law imposed by Beijing.
Ant, which is controlled by Jack Ma, the founder of Alibaba, did not offer details on timing. Investors have been waiting for the listing for years.
In response to the new national security law imposed by Beijing on the territory, Britain on Monday 
The foreign secretary, Dominic Raab, cited fears that anyone extradited to Hong Kong from Britain could be sent to mainland China under the new law. The move is sure to inflame tensions with Beijing and shows a hardening of Britain’s stance toward China.
This week, Prime Minister Boris Johnson is meeting with Mike Pompeo, the U.S. secretary of state, and China is expected to be high on the agenda during the visit. Australia and Canada suspended their extradition treaties with Hong Kong earlier this month.
Seven years after her death, 
Asawa, above working on a looped-wire sculpture in 1957, was incarcerated as a teenager in a Japanese-American concentration camp and overcame incredible prejudice and racism to be an artist. Her legacy reflects both her own contributions as an artist as well as the singular path she forged for herself as a woman, an Asian-American and the child of immigrants.
Meshell Ndegeocello, Brandi Carlile and Hayley Kiyoko, artists with different backgrounds, found shared experiences in a conversation during The Times’s “Live at Home” series focused on 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Melina