
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering the role of 
Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte of Italy 
People will be able to visit relatives on that date, though gatherings and parties remain banned, and special forms are required for travel.
Italy’s mayors, whose profanity-laced rebukes to their constituents went viral online, say they plan on enforcing new rules in place during the reopening.
They have launched insult-armed drones, confronted scofflaws on the streets and threatened to personally break up parties.
But they say the clear, if colorful, warnings — a contrast with the message from the national government — have worked.
The pandemic has now killed more than 200,000 people and sickened more than 2.9 million worldwide, 
Here are the 
The Times is providing free access to 
Prime Minister Boris Johnson of Britain 
He now faces what one cabinet member called “the political calculus of life and death”: how to ease the lockdown. And in his absence, a rotating roster of cabinet ministers, along with expert advisers, has given 
While Mr. Trump’s message changes on his whims — at one point even suggesting 
The country had more than 152,000 confirmed cases as of Sunday and more than 20,000 deaths.
Americans should expect social distancing guidelines 
Wuhan, the original epicenter of the pandemic in China, now has 
Governments worldwide 
Under the autocratic rule of President Aleksandr Lukashenko, 
France and the Netherlands will provide 
With tourists gone and thousands of affluent Parisians away, our France bureau chief Adam Nossiter has noticed 
Working people perch at their windows, greeting passers-by or sunbathing like the woman above. But neighborhoods given over to luxury shops are silent. It’s so quiet you can hear ducks quacking on the river Seine.
“Paris reduced to its architectural essence is grandiose but cold, an unreal postcard,” he writes. “Yet it is also a fertile theater for the imagination.”
Our international photo desk has editors in three hubs across the world. Last week, the editors most responsible for assigning photography in these regions — Gaia Tripoli in London, me in New York and Mikko Takkunen in Hong Kong — were thinking about ways to show readers what the beginning of Ramadan would look like this year, as the coronavirus crisis continues to transform the way people live.
A couple of weeks ago, we had put together a photo-led piece on 
Dan Balilty’s striking photograph of a man praying on a rooftop in Jerusalem during a sandstorm — with the Dome of the Rock in the background — led the essay. We got an intimate look into people’s homes as they celebrated the start of the holy month in Johannesburg, Mumbai and Kuala Lumpur. We saw grand mosques, empty or nearly so, in Brooklyn, New Delhi, Sarajevo, Paris, Dearborn and Bangkok. And we showed people distributing food for iftar in Myanmar, Indonesia and Egypt.
We aimed for geographic, cultural and aesthetic diversity, asking photographers to document what they found in their own communities, from an intimate iftar supper in Jeddah to a solitary prayer on a lake in Kashmir.
If you’re celebrating, Happy Ramadan.
That’s it for this briefing. Enjoy 
— Isabella