
Good morning.
We’re covering a 
Italy imposed an 
Italy now has 7,375 confirmed cases, and 366 people have died from Covid-19, the disease caused by the virus. The government’s move is a sign that restrictive clampdowns — which clash with core values of Western democracies — might be necessary to contain and defeat the epidemic. 
“We are the new Wuhan,” one Milan resident told our reporter, referring to the Chinese city where the virus was first discovered, and which was later 
As officials across Europe scramble to slow the outbreak of the coronavirus, this much is clear: Public health measures that make sense for one country can have negative effects on its neighbors.
The Italian lockdown may ultimately save lives, for example, but 
Officials in Brussels have also criticized efforts by France, Germany and the Czech Republic to 
On a recent trip from Turkey into Idlib Province in northern Syria, our journalists met frightened residents who were 
Some of Idlib’s civilians still cling to the hope that Turkey’s growing deployment of troops into the province will stop an onslaught against rebels by Syrian government forces and Russian warplanes. But even though a 
Lisa Nandy, above, who is vying to lead the opposition Labour Party in Britain, has more centrist politics than her main rivals. That’s one of the reasons she is a clear underdog in a race that Keir Starmer, the party’s Brexit policy leader under Jeremy Corbyn, is favored to win.
But Ms. Nandy, 40, is a woman from the north of England — the place where analysts say Labour betrayed its working-class roots. In that sense, 
“This has been a really long time coming,” she said of the recent election failure, “and I don’t think the Labour Party has had an honest reckoning with how deep this is and how long and how far back the roots of this go in communities like mine.”
One signal Mr. Kucharski looks for is when the first case in an area is a death: “That suggests you had a lot of community transmission already,” he said.
“Suppose the fatality rate for cases is about 1 percent, which is plausible,” he continued. “If you’ve got a death, then that person probably became ill about three weeks ago. That means you probably had about 100 cases three weeks ago, in reality.”
“In that subsequent three weeks,” he added, “that number could well have doubled, then doubled, then doubled again. So you’re currently looking at 500 cases, maybe 1,000 cases.”
When considering the fatality rate, Mr. Kucharski suggested people pay attention to the variable risk level for different age groups, particularly people in their 70s and 80s.
“Over all we’re seeing maybe 1 percent of symptomatic cases are fatal across all ages,” he said. “What’s also important is that 1 percent isn’t evenly distributed. In younger groups, we’re talking perhaps 0.1 percent, which means that when you get into the older groups, you’re potentially talking about 5 percent, 10 percent of cases being fatal.”
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Mike