
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
Sincere apologies: Technical problems and human error prevented us from sending yesterday’s briefing by email, and we emailed you Wednesday’s briefing by accident.
Today we’re covering 
Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada said on Thursday that early intelligence suggested an 
Wednesday’s crash, which killed some 176 passengers and crew members, including 
A spokesman for Iran’s armed forces has denied that the crash was a result of military action.
Top Iranian officials on Thursday sent conflicting signals about 
The officials spoke a day after Iran said it had “concluded proportionate measures” against the U.S. by firing missiles at two Iraqi military bases that house American troops. No one was killed or injured in those strikes, which appeared designed to save face rather than to inflict casualties.
Whatever happens next, 
A bombshell Instagram announcement on Wednesday by Prince Harry and his wife, Meghan, 
Now it’s unclear whether Prince Harry would still be entitled to the income he has long received from his father, Prince Charles, or whether he and Meghan could continue living rent-free in a house on the estate of Windsor Castle.
Many scientists and public-health experts believe that so-called gene drives — a tool that inserts a chosen gene into the DNA of generations of an organism’s offspring — 
But the tool has yet to be tested outside the lab, and there are many unknowns. Could a gene drive stop one virus, for example, only to open the way for a more virulent one?
Together, they form a giant reservoir storing carbon dioxide. 
Boreal forests are distinct from tropical forests, closer to the Equator. Boreal forests lock away about 
These are tough times for the world’s forests, though. Think about the fires in Australia and the ones last year in the Amazon. Agriculture, logging and urbanization are taking a toll, too. 
That brings us to single-use paper products, like paper towels, especially the ones sold in North America. Their fiber is often taken from boreal forests, so reducing home use can help protect trees. 
In Asia, cloth towels remain the standard. But 
That’s it for this briefing. Have a great weekend. 
— Mike