
To say that 2020 was stressful is an understatement, what with a pandemic that the world hasn’t yet emerged from, a sharply divisive U.S. presidential election whose controversies have yet to ebb, social unrest over vast inequalities … need we go on?
But as this tumultuous year heads toward a close, let’s take a glass-half-full view and focus on some promising developments heading into 2021.
Perhaps the biggest cause for optimism, he writes, is some restoration in global cooperation: “There’s no way we would be as far along as we are if governments, companies and scientists around the world weren’t, more often than not, working closely together.”
Even though that was in large part because of pandemic lockdowns, it’s still a basis for hope, 
That led Mr. Dalio to organize the giveaway of 
The convergence of racial justice protests, a pandemic that eliminated crowds at arenas and a broadcasting industry increasingly reliant on live sports presents an opportune moment to tell the story of the N.B.A.’s emergence as a cultural and economic force, as some new books try to do. Its new season, its 75th, also 
In 1976, when the league subsumed its rival, the American Basketball Association, the sport was seen as a marginal sport with relatively few televised games. CBS, which then held the rights, routinely broadcast games on tape delay to avoid conflict with popular series like “Dallas” and “The Dukes of Hazzard.” Today, that would be unthinkable for Turner Broadcasting and ESPN under their 
Although the N.F.L. dominates national rights revenue and viewership, the N.B.A. has had far more success internationally. And culturally, the basketball league has long played a greater role in music, fashion and beyond. The stark contrast between its early embrace of the Black Lives Matter movement with the N.F.L.’s initially hostile approach reflected the different demographics not of the players — the athletes in both leagues are overwhelmingly Black — but of the 
The N.B.A.’s evolution into a central role in media economics and social activism has important implications for business and politics. That makes the journalist Pete Croatto’s history, “
The book opens with the 2017 debut performance of the former L.A. Laker Derek Fisher on “Dancing with the Stars” to make a point about basketball’s mainstream relevance, but there are many better examples. Mr. Croatto’s choices may be driven by a lack of access to figures like the former N.B.A. commissioner David Stern, 
“Hang Time to Prime Time” has its moments. The differences in the two basketball leagues’ playing styles and cultures reflected broader social tensions that Mr. Croatto documents well. The institutional resistance to jump shots and slam dunks, along with the ugly fight over introducing the three-point shot in 1979, are put in their rightful, racist context.
The moment when the players’ union saw the N.B.A.’s battered books and agreed to a salary cap to “protect the owners from financial self-harm and save the jobs of the players” is eye-opening. And the symbiotic relationship between rap music and the N.B.A. is lovingly detailed.
Yet Mr. Croatto ends his history around 1990, even though it wasn’t until 1993, when Rupert Murdoch’s fledgling Fox TV network 
More successful at covering a similar period is Joshua Mendelsohn’s “
Many expected the pandemic to put a lid on the relentless rise in the cost of sports media rights. But when Turner announced a 
The ability of the N.B.A.’s players and executives to take on an outsized role in the response to the killing of George Floyd reflects the rise of the league’s 
We’d like your feedback! Please email thoughts and suggestions to 