
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering 
With coronavirus case numbers rising rapidly and hospitals already under strain in France and Germany, the countries’ leaders announced significant restrictions on Wednesday in an attempt to curb infection rates.
Starting on Friday, 
In Germany, Chancellor Angela Merkel announced the closure of restaurants and bars, as well as gyms, theaters, museums and nail salons, for a month. Schools will remain open.
Here are 
Melbourne, Australia’s second-largest city, 
The drug makers Sanofi and GlaxoSmithKline have vowed to 
Eli Lilly has 
Tens of thousands of people took to Poland’s streets in a nationwide strike on Wednesday to protest a court decision banning nearly all abortions. Now in their sixth day, the protests drew thousands of women, joined by numerous men, who 
The ruling, made by a top court last week, stopped pregnancy terminations for fetal abnormalities, virtually the only type of abortion currently performed in the country. The protests have turned into 
In the greater scheme of Britain’s larger economy, fishing is a tiny industry. Just 12,000 people in Britain fish from 6,000 vessels, contributing less than one-half of 1 percent of gross domestic product — less than the upmarket London department store Harrods, according to one analysis. The same holds true for most continental European nations.
But as 
A year ago, Mesut Özil, the Arsenal midfielder, was one of the Premier League’s highest-paid players. But then he criticized China on Twitter over its treatment of Uighur Muslims and in an Instagram post.
A lot changed after that moment — though it’s unclear how much of it can be traced back to his criticism of China. Our reporters 
The pandemic has emerged as the dominant issue among candidates up and down the ballot, scrambled American campaign traditions and complicated the way votes are cast. The collision of an election and a pandemic has thrown campaigns and early voting efforts into a last-minute frenzy. 
“All we’re missing is the asteroid landing with flesh-eating zombies, and our year will be complete,” said Paul Lux, the supervisor of elections in Okaloosa County, Fla., and one of the 
Voters who had never considered mailing their ballots are doing so for the first time rather than braving their usual indoor polling places. And some in the nation’s army of Election Day workers are weighing what levels of protective equipment to wear — if they go to the polls again this year at all.
The share of cases reported in Republican counties has grown every month, from 20 percent in March to 56 percent now, a Times analysis of virus data shows. Much of it is occurring in counties that represent President Trump’s base within battleground states that could decide the election.
That’s it for this briefing. See you on Friday.
— Natasha