
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering the aftermath of the 
A massive shock wave 
With the wounded still streaming into hospitals and the search for missing people underway, 
There were two blasts within moments of each other, the second one much larger. Prime Minister Hassan Diab said Wednesday would be a national day of mourning. Images show 
One is a Russian-born British newspaper baron whose father was once a K.G.B. officer. Another is the 
Theirs are among the names on Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s first list of appointments to the House of Lords. The handing out of peerages, as the lifetime appointments are called, is one of Britain’s most dependable displays of cronyism, regardless of who the prime minister is.
But critics say Mr. Johnson’s nominations could further undermine the credibility of the long-troubled institution. He created 36 new peers, the second-highest number in more than two decades, bringing the chamber to nearly 800 members. He also nominated Brexit supporters from the opposition Labor Party, which could have unpredictable results.
Australia’s second-largest city has imposed some of the toughest restrictions in the world to beat back a new wave of coronavirus infections. Officials are promising a “
There are signs that people in Melbourne are getting fed up. Our Sydney bureau chief writes that “the new waves of restrictions feel to many like a bombing raid that just won’t end.” A door-to-door campaign to check in on 3,000 people who had contracted the virus found that 800 of them were not at home. 
The police are facing opposition as they enforce the rules. Officers recently smashed the windows of cars and pulled people out after they refused to provide their names and addresses. 
Here are the 
In other developments:
Recent studies of 
After Russia announced a vaccination program set for October, raising concerns that inoculations may begin before tests are complete, the World Health Organization urged it to follow guidelines for 
Two preliminary studies of an experimental vaccine in the U.S. have 
At a time when the Tokyo Olympics should have been taking place, gymnasts have been speaking out about 
Chloe Gilliland, 29, a former member of the Australian national team, said she considered suicide as a teenager after coaches said she was “a bad child” because she was too heavy.
The gymnasts’ stories are part of a push for change empowered by the #MeToo movement. National gymnastics federations in Britain, Australia, the Netherlands and Belgium say they are trying to curb abuses.
I’m a reporter who has been writing articles about those bills since mid-February. My first article focused on an American man and his 3-year-old daughter who faced more than $3,900 in bills for care received during a government-mandated quarantine.
“I assumed it was all being paid for,” the man, 
Since then, my colleagues and I have written about $2,315 coronavirus tests and $401,886 bills for treatment. We’ve discovered that the price of a coronavirus test can vary by 2,700 percent within the same emergency room.
I’ve run similar projects that have inspired legislation and demystified American medical billing. Because health care providers keep their prices secret, bills play a critical role in helping us understand how Americans are grappling with medical costs during the health crisis.
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time. 
— Isabella