
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering the E.U.’s 
After days of intense talks in Brussels, European Union leaders on Tuesday stepped up to confront one of the gravest challenges in the bloc’s history, 
The deal, spearheaded by Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and President Emmanuel Macron of France, was notable for its firsts. European countries will raise large sums by selling bonds collectively, not individually. And much of the money will go to hard-hit member nations as grants, not loans. 
Leaders agreed that the scale of the crisis required groundbreaking measures to ensure the E.U.’s legitimacy, stability and prosperity. But the negotiations were notable for their rancor, and it was clear that the pooling of resources and sovereignty had come at a cost. At one point, Mr. Macron slapped the table and yelled at Chancellor Sebastian Kurz of Austria for impeding the deal, and for leaving the room to take a call. 
Two potential coronavirus vaccines, from Oxford University and the Chinese company CanSino, 
Synairgen, a U.K.-based biotech company, said early results indicated 
Once a model for controlling the virus, Hong Kong is on edge 
Here are 
In response to the national security law imposed by China on Hong Kong, Britain on Monday 
The foreign secretary, Dominic Raab, cited concerns that under the sweeping new law, anyone extradited to Hong Kong from Britain — which ruled the territory as a colony until 1997 — could easily be sent to mainland China. Australia and Canada suspended their own extradition treaties with Hong Kong earlier this month.
China is expected to be high on the agenda this week when Prime Minister Boris Johnson meets with Mike Pompeo, the U.S. secretary of state, who has called on allies to draw a firm line with Beijing on a number of fronts. Last week, Britain 
When Google and Apple announced plans in April for free software to help alert people to possible coronavirus exposure, 
Since then, Germany, Switzerland and other countries have used the code to develop national apps that have been downloaded more than 20 million times. But users of the Android operating system must first turn on the device’s location setting, which means Google can still find out where they are.
Some government agencies that use the software seemed surprised that Google could detect Android users’ locations. Others said they had unsuccessfully pushed the company to make a change.
Tati, the department store that 
Our Paris bureau chief described it as “a once-thronged wonder of Paris more visited than the Eiffel Tower.”
“Equality, for everybody” was how one shopper described it. “This is a place where everybody can shop. You never leave with your hands empty.”
Meshell Ndegeocello, Brandi Carlile and Hayley Kiyoko, artists of varying backgrounds, found shared experiences in a conversation about 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Isabella