
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering 
Hong Kong will close gyms, cinemas and its Disneyland this week 
Gatherings of more than four people and dining in restaurants after 6 p.m. will be banned. The restrictions were a disappointing setback for a city that until recently seemed to have a successful strategy to control the virus.
They will also make it harder for the pro-democracy opposition to organize protests against a sweeping national security law, which was imposed on June 30.
Amnesty International
The leader of 
On Monday, an organization in 
The 
Here are 
President Andrzej Duda of Poland was 
His victory cleared a pathway for Poland’s government to continue with a conservative, nationalistic agenda. Mr. Duda and his governing party have fought to control the courts and the news media, while stoking fear of gay people, the European Union and foreigners.
For many in the opposition, the race was a chance to save institutions that form the bedrock of a healthy democracy.
The recent American intelligence assessment that Russia had provided the Taliban with bounties to attack U.S. and coalition troops 
What began as a diplomatic channel has more recently blossomed into an alliance that has allowed the Kremlin to reassert its influence in Afghanistan. It has coincided with increasing hostility between the U.S. and Russia over Syria’s civil war, as well as Russia’s frustration with rising instability in Afghanistan and the slow pace of the U.S. pullout.
Both Russia and the Taliban have rejected claims that any bounties were paid.
Over the past two decades, inequality in Latin America has fallen to the lowest point in its recorded history. 
Our reporters traveled 1,000 miles across Colombia to document this critical moment. Near the Venezuelan border, in the town of Cúcuta, pictured above, the economic shutdown has pushed women and girls into sex work. One 17-year-old said that her father had lost his job, and that she was desperate: Somebody had to bring in money, she said, “and it turned to me.”
Rice University, in Houston, is building nine big new classrooms this summer, all of them outdoors.
Five are open-sided circus tents that the university is buying, and another four are semi-permanent structures that workers are building in an open field near dorms, said Kevin Kirby, Rice’s vice president for administration. Students and professors will decorate the spaces with murals and video projections.
In the fall, the structures will host classes and student activities, while reducing health risks — since the coronavirus spreads less easily outdoors. Mr. Kirby describes the construction project as “a statement to the community.” The statement: “We’re creative. We’re resilient. And what we do matters.”
Across the country, many indoor activities are going to be problematic for the foreseeable future: school, religious services, work meetings, cultural events, restaurant meals, haircuts and more. Mask-wearing reduces the risks, but being outdoors can reduce it even more.
That’s it for this briefing. 
— Isabella