
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering 
Mass roundups of the sick were 
But the large-scale quarantines in Wuhan have created confusion and frustration, and put some patients at even greater risk.
Confirmed coronavirus patients showing mild symptoms are being massed together, while those suspected of being infected are being isolated in converted hotels and schools.
The British prime minister faces a new dynamic among his top advisers this morning, after what was supposed to be a routine reshuffle 
Rishi Sunak, 39 and a relative newcomer to Parliament, will be the chancellor of the Exchequer, traditionally the second most powerful role in the government. He’s replacing his former boss, Sajid Javid, who abruptly resigned rather than cede some of his power over economic policy to Mr. Johnson.
Top politicians from a range of ministries had already been told to step aside by Mr. Johnson’s officials, as the prime minister sought to provide a sense that his government was leaving behind three years of Brexit paralysis.
Mr. Johnson’s office insisted that Mr. Javid fire his advisers, who would be replaced by a unit that would ultimately report to the prime minister. “I don’t believe any self-respecting minister would accept such conditions,” Mr. Javid said.
In a television interview on Thursday, the top U.S. law enforcement official, Attorney General William Barr, delivered a rebuke to President Trump.
He 
“I’m not going to be bullied or influenced by anybody,” Mr. Barr said, adding, “whether it’s Congress, newspaper editorial boards or the president.”
“I’m going to do what I think is right,” he said. “And, you know, I think I cannot do my job here at the department with a constant background commentary that undercuts me.”
Our Climate reporters looked at the way the sprawling metropolitan areas of Manila, above left, and San Francisco, above right, are handling the climate crisis and rising sea levels.
Will they try to redirect water to adapt to their needs, or reimagine their coastlines? Their decisions could 
In the beginning of every epidemic, there is the fog of war.
I’d say we’re still in that fog. We know this virus is much more transmissible than SARS or MERS. We don’t know if it’s quite as transmissible as the flu. We know it can kill people. We know it’s not nearly as lethal as MERS or SARS.
One of the things we don’t know is what the Chinese aren’t saying. We know that 
When you ask scientists, “What’s your fear for the Big One, the pandemic that’s going to kill us all?” — not that there is a pandemic that’s going to kill us all — but if you ask them that, they say, “Flu.” They worry about some new flu, bird flu or swine flu, that’s highly lethal but becomes very transmissible between humans. I know only one or two scientists who have said, “You know, I also worry about coronaviruses being the Big One.”
I don’t want to raise alarm that this is the Big One. But this is a new, scary and confusing one, and we don’t yet know how far it’s going to spread and how many people it’s going to kill.
I’m always trying to figure out: Am I being alarmist, or am I not being alarmist enough? I was too alarmist about H5N1 back in 2005, the bird flu. I was not alarmist enough about West Africa and Ebola in its early days. All previous Ebola outbreaks had killed a few hundred people. 
A big part of my beat is debunking the panicky stories. It actually consumes almost as much of my time as reporting does.
I try to spread truth instead of panic, even if it takes me a little longer to get it right.
That’s it for this briefing. Hope you have a great (and healthy) weekend.
— Andrea