
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering 
The disaster has turned into a domestic political crisis that has for now overshadowed Iran’s struggle with the United States. In one sign of 
Iran admitted responsibility for downing the plane, after denying it for days, and the country’s president, Hassan Rouhani, called the error an “unforgivable mistake.” But Ukrainian officials said the admission came only because its own investigators had found evidence of a missile strike at the crash site.
Early this morning, Fayez al-Sarraj, the leader of Libya’s United Nations-backed government, called on Libyans “to turn the page on the past, reject discord and to close ranks to move towards stability and peace.” But there were already reports of continuing fighting around Tripoli. 
Queen Elizabeth II has summoned Prince Harry, his brother, Prince William, and their father, Prince Charles, for a meeting today to discuss the future of the monarchy’s relationship with Harry and his wife, the former Meghan Markle.
The meeting, at the queen’s Sandringham estate, comes in response to the couple’s bombshell announcement last week that they would “step back” as senior royals, live partly in North America and try to become financially independent. 
The announcement took Buckingham Palace by surprise, and it’s still unclear how Harry and Meghan will earn money or who will pay for their security.
François Hollande, who served as France’s president from 2012 to 2017, presided over what some see as a break between his Socialist Party and its working-class supporters. Now the party’s survival is in doubt.
The party recently moved its headquarters from central Paris to a working-class suburb, above. Some
The fire that hit Lake Conjola was one of the biggest. So I headed there on the highway.
It was mayhem. People were clearly frightened. Some had their possessions with them. Down the road, in Conjola Park, every house was burning. It was catastrophic.
In the town of Lake Conjola, there was a stretch of about four or five homes, with one engulfed in flames. The neighbors on each side were trying to hose down their own houses. They were using their shirts as masks because there was smoke everywhere.
A little after 1 p.m., a power line to the burning house fell. It was then that I saw a group of kangaroos coming up the middle of the road, obviously running from another fire. And one ran right between me and the house. I reacted and raised the camera so I could compose that one image.
I remembered thinking, Yeah, got it, good shot, but I never allow myself to get too excited about a photo in the middle of something.
A photojournalist is trying to tell the story with pictures, and you need a series of strong images. You’re looking to document everything that’s happening. So I kept moving.
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time. 
— Mike