
Good morning.
We’re covering a first approval abroad for a 
The United Arab Emirates said on Wednesday that it had 
If results from elsewhere show similar findings, the Chinese vaccines could offer a lifeline to developing countries that cannot afford vaccines from the United States that are likely to be more expensive and more difficult to transport.
Here are 
A “cruise to nowhere” from Singapore has ended early — back where it started — after a 
Canada has 
More than a third of Americans live in areas where 
Chancellor Angela Merkel on Wednesday 
The food delivery app DoorDash 
DoorDash’s stock opened at $182 on the New York Stock Exchange, valuing it at roughly 
Another major start-up is going public this week: The home-rental platform Airbnb could be valued at as high as $42 billion. Opendoor, a real estate start-up also backed by SoftBank, plans to go public by the year’s end. 
The Times’s visual investigations team analyzed new satellite images showing that Iran is 
New tunnel entrances for underground construction are visible under a ridge in the mountain foothills south of the facility in Natanz, about 140 miles south of Tehran. The construction was prompted by a July explosion that destroyed a building at the Natanz site. Iran has blamed Israel and the U.S. for the explosion.
Regulators in Britain, India and several other countries are expected to authorize the Oxford-AstraZeneca coronavirus vaccine in the coming weeks. But in the U.S., where regulators have been frustrated with AstraZeneca and want to examine data from a greater number of trial participants, that approval appears further off.
Our reporters pieced together the series of communication errors and delayed trials that led to the drugmaker’s 
Gregory Poland of the Mayo Clinic, who is also editor in chief of the journal Vaccine, described the vaccine “as nothing short of dizzying.”
“We were all prepared to see something like 50 to 70 percent efficacy, something like that. And to be in excess of 90 percent, 95 percent, puts it on par with the best vaccines that have ever been developed — and with apparent acceptable short-term safety. I think this is really going to have a profound effect on the field of vaccinology. I hate to overuse the word ‘paradigm-breaking,’ but it is, in many ways.”
Marc Lipsitch, professor of epidemiology and director of the Center for Communicable Disease Dynamics at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health: “The only certain way, given what we know about the vaccine now, to get society back to being able to function is to have this be a less-severe disease. And the way you do that is to make the people in whom it’s severe no longer vulnerable.”
Monica Schoch-Spana, a medical anthropologist who studies the ways communities respond to disaster: “This is about trust, and trust building, and processes of reconciliation. And that takes time. And during that time, we can improve our messaging and involve trusted messengers. But what we’re talking about is re-establishing trust in institutions. We have to build processes for that, and strengthen the ones that are already there.”
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Melina