
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering 
The British prime minister has seen 
But his government is facing hard questions about why Britain has failed to secure enough masks or gloves for doctors and nurses, seems likely to fall short of a promise to test 100,000 people a day by the end of this month, and has not offered a blueprint for lifting the lockdown imposed on March 23.
Local governments in France are 
About a dozen complaints have been lodged by individuals and medical organizations with the French Court of Justice, and several officials have been accused of willfully failing to take appropriate measures to combat the virus, endangering people’s lives.
France has suffered 23,660 official deaths at last count, despite imposing one of the world’s strictest nationwide lockdowns, now in its seventh week.
“The ones who were already weak, who already had worse working conditions, are now the ones that suffer,” said Mira Neumaier, head of the civil aviation team at the German service workers union Ver.di.
Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said the trial of the antiviral drug remdesivir, made by Gilead, had shown that treatment with it could modestly speed recovery in patients infected with the virus.
Though other scientists were more cautious, the Food and Drug Administration will probably at some point give emergency approval for remdesivir, a senior administration official told The Times. Another drug, hydrochloroquine, was granted such an approval, but results in patients have been disappointing.
Here are 
The Times is providing free access to 
Smartphone apps can help to track the coronavirus, but they also 
In Norway, pictured above, the app sends data from the phone’s GPS and Bluetooth to central servers that can be used by government health authorities. A new law says the information has to be deleted every 30 days.
Getting access to regular people in China might be the part of foreign correspondents’ jobs there that the Chinese authorities find hardest to control, though 
But even face to face with people in China, it could be tough to have real conversations. People ended interviews when they started to seem hazardous — too personal, too political. This is how the authoritarian system keeps a lid on criticism: It gives everyone reason to think that personal matters 
Often enough, though, I found people in China who were relieved that someone was finally listening: hog farmers pleading for aid from the local government after their herds were 
I’m leaving China more convinced than ever of how much ordinary people can teach us about a place — which might be one reason the government was so eager for us to leave.
That’s it for this briefing. Here are some 
— Victoria