
Good morning.
We’re covering governments coming to grips with the 
Reality started to sink in this week: As the outbreak
Japan, which has played down concerns about the Olympics this summer, 
The U.S. is pressing forward on its coronavirus preparations, with Vice President Mike Pence tasked with 
The signing of a deal between the Taliban and the U.S. is expected to go ahead on Saturday, a major step toward peace for a country scarred by more than four decades of conflict.
A weeklong, partial cease-fire was a prerequisite for the signing, and it has appeared to work, leading to as much as an 
The Indian government and the police in New Delhi are 
The government asked for more time to investigate after police officials addressed accusations in court on Thursday that they had ignored specific intelligence about armed Hindus coming together to challenge Muslim protesters. Critics saw it as a stall tactic.
Intelligence agents in the police services requested more forces to be deployed, but the chaos only grew, according to Indian media.
For years, leaders of Australian rules football — the country’s national sport, as well as one of the most violent games in the world — have tried to play down the risks of long-term brain damage from the sport while seeking to prevent traumatic brain injuries.
But now that one of the game’s legends, Graham Farmer, was found to have had chronic traumatic encephalopathy, or C.T.E., it 
The question I posed was: Listen, peace means that, eventually, tens of thousands of Taliban fighters that are out there either lay down their arms or integrate into the United Afghan security force. That means you, a 21-year-old who has fought as a child soldier since you were 14 against these Taliban, will be sitting with them around the same dinner table. Are you ready for that?
They were like, “I hate their guts.” And a lot of them hadn’t digested that question. 
This war started largely as an American war. But in the second decade of it, increasingly this became a very localized Afghan-on-Afghan war — this became relatives on two different sides, on the government side and on the insurgent side.
The big question is, “What is the process for undoing this hatred, this animosity that’s been so localized?” The fear is there’s not going to be enough time and patience for that process. That’s going to require a lot of hand-holding and attention and time. Does the U.S. have the patience to stick around for that to complete in a proper way?
The whole past year of focusing on the potential for a resolution to the conflict has been refreshing in a lot of ways. The past seven years, a good chunk of it, I was reporting on a story that was a bleeding stalemate.
Every day, every week, we were reporting on death after death after death. It was frustratingly, heartbreakingly hopeless. It’s felt like I’ve been an obituary writer, almost — we were finding human stories to remind people that, hey, these 50 dead all had hopes and dreams and lives.
The past year, there was this opening that finally this conversation could turn. As a reporter, part of me almost feels like it’s returning to a normal reporting job: politics, diplomacy, deals. The past week gave me an idea of what reporting on Afghanistan would be like if it were a more normal place.
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Melina