
Good morning.
We’re covering the 
Two soldiers from Myanmar have publicly confessed to taking part in the executions and mass burials of civilians in 2017, in what United Nations officials say was 
The soldiers’ video testimony, recorded by a rebel militia, is the first time that members of the Tatmadaw, as Myanmar’s military is known, have admitted to such crimes, which also included rape and the destruction of entire villages. The soldiers have been taken to The Hague, where the International Criminal Court is investigating the Tatmadaw’s actions against the Rohingya.
Our reporters say that details in the soldiers’ testimonies align with satellite photos and accounts from witnesses and survivors, many of whom are now in refugee camps in Bangladesh. Myanmar has repeatedly denied any orchestrated campaign against the Rohingya.
Maria Kolesnikova, the prominent opposition leader in Belarus who 
Ukraine’s deputy minister for internal affairs, Anton Gerashchenko, confirmed that the authorities in Belarus had planned a “forced expulsion” of Ms. Kolesnikova, but said the plans were not completed “because this brave woman took action to prevent her movement across the border.” He added that she “remained on the territory of the Republic of Belarus.”
Her supporters have denounced the apparent abduction as the work of government security forces. They called it a sign that the authorities had shifted their strategy in response to nearly a month of protests over a disputed election on Aug 9.
The pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca halted 
Whether the illness is directly linked to AstraZeneca’s vaccine remains unclear.
The trial’s halt will allow the British-Swedish company to conduct a safety review. In a statement, AstraZeneca described the pause as a “routine action which has to happen whenever there is a potentially unexplained illness in one of the trials, while it is investigated, ensuring we maintain the integrity of the trials.”
The company’s vaccine is in Phase 2/3 trials in England and India, and in Phase 3 trials in Brazil, South Africa and more than 60 sites in the United States. The company intended for its U.S. enrollment to 
Here are 
The head of 
Xi Jinping, China’s leader, said the country’s success in suppressing its outbreak was 
Japan approved a plan to spend more than $6 billion from its emergency budget reserves on coronavirus vaccines.
The director of the Tour de France tested positive for the virus.
Republican leaders in the U.S. Senate said they would 
Since the start of the pandemic, life for Hikaru Nakamura, above, a 32-year-old chess grandmaster, has taken a drastic turn. He is still playing (as exceptionally as ever, of course) — but to 
Watching livestreams of chess games? Could one of the world’s oldest, most cerebral games really rebrand itself as a lively enough pastime to capture the interest of the masses on Twitch? Turns out, it already has.
They deserted from the Myanmar military earlier this year. They said they deserted because they were upset that the Tatmadaw persecutes ethnic minorities. Both of them are ethnic minorities in a country well known for persecuting not just the Rohingya, but also many, many other ethnic groups. 
I think it’s important not only to highlight what they did, but I think it’s also really important for the Rohingya themselves, who are living in horrible conditions in Bangladesh. They are living in this fiction that they will someday soon return and be repatriated to Myanmar — that’s not going to happen.
And to see that some of the perpetrators are actually confessing is really important, not just from a legal perspective but also from a human perspective.
It fits into a narrative of global Islamophobia. Back when we all celebrated Daw Aung San Suu Kyi as a Nobel Peace Prize laureate who was fighting for democracy, we sort of assumed that if she and people connected to her were to come to power, that it wouldn’t be easy but they would promote human rights for all people living in the country. It quickly became clear that that was not the case.
That’s it for today’s briefing. See you this time tomorrow.
— Natasha