
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering the 
The first European countries are 
Countries are now balancing public health with the prospect of an extended recession. Europe’s largest economies, Germany and France, warned on Wednesday that they were expecting the 
Now, focus is on contentious talks within the European Union on how it plans to help hard-hit economies recover — a symbol of what 
European finance ministers failed to agree on a list of measures in a marathon meeting that went through Tuesday night.
Here are the 
In other developments:
Saudi Arabia said on Wednesday that it would
More than two dozen companies have 
The European Union’s top scientist, Dr. Mauro Ferrari, 
Passover began at sundown yesterday. For observant Jews, the pandemic 
The Times is providing free access to 
We want to hear from the doctors, nurses and health care workers risking their lives during the coronavirus pandemic. 
“In this most desperate hour, I cannot in good conscience continue to mount a campaign that cannot win and which would interfere with the important work required of all of us,” Senator Bernie Sanders 
The Vermont senator’s exit from the Democratic race 
The eight men had moved to Britain from different corners of its former empire, becoming doctors in the nation’s treasured National Health Service.
They became 
In a country where anti-immigrant sentiment birthed the Brexit movement, Britain’s health system is heavily dependent on foreign doctors, many of whom are now on the front lines of the fight against the epidemic.
Above, medical workers in China cheering as they prepared to leave Wuhan after the lockdown was lifted on Wednesday. As the pandemic unleashes the worst global crisis in decades, China has been 
Chinese leaders are using a propaganda machine to cast themselves as a responsible world power that has triumphed over the coronavirus. But the country is facing growing criticism that it initially hid the outbreak and understated its severity.
Beijing’s ambitions for global leadership may rest on whether it is pilloried for the pandemic’s roots.
Around the world, online habits are changing. But are we giving too much power to tech companies now — and possibly forever? Shira Ovide, the host of our On Tech newsletter, chatted about that question 
Amazon is doing great things, yet look at what’s going on 
Facebook 
Tech companies have lived off the back of other people’s cheap labor for a long time — whether it’s an 
These workers deserve much stronger pay and more benefits. That’s costly to the people who want to stay enormously wealthy, and to consumers who like a low price.
I just had a baby with my girlfriend, and staring at a baby who has no idea that any of this is happening is really quite something. Watch a baby eat bananas for the first time. You will feel just fine.
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time. 
— Isabella