
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning. 
We’re covering the latest developments in the 
Congressional Democrats 
Mr. Trump mostly 
It’s unclear why a Ukraine International Airlines plane that left Tehran on Wednesday morning crashed, in flames, within minutes of takeoff, 
The crash came mere hours after Iran’s missile attack on the Iraqi military bases, and experts now say the aircraft may well have been attacked. “Planes just don’t blow up in midair,” one of them, Richard Aboulafia, told The Times. “It doesn’t work like that.”
The mystery may not be resolved anytime soon: Iran has said it will not send the plane’s “black boxes,” or flight data recorders, to Boeing, the American company that manufactured the plane.
Prince Harry and his American wife, the actress Meghan Markle, 
The announcement appeared to catch the royal family off guard, and the couple’s “half-in, half-out arrangement” 
The European Union spent 20 million euros last year on equipment and materials to build a road in Eritrea — part of a €4.6 billion 
Many workers on the project turned out to be forced conscripts, but that didn’t stop the E.U. from giving Eritrea, a repressive East African country, another €95 million to finance a system of forced conscription that the United Nations has described as “tantamount to enslavement.”
In an exclusive report, our Brussels correspondent calls the additional aid a “
On Jan. 1, a Warsaw museum that has exhibited Poland’s leading experimental artists got a new director: Piotr Bernatowicz.
Mr. Bernatowicz, above, who was appointed by the culture minister in Poland’s populist government, wants to show conservative works and challenge left-wing positions. But Polish artists and curators, some of whom petitioned against his appointment, 
“To put this man on top is like putting a cork in the bottle,” one critic said.
When the news broke that a Ukrainian jet had gone down after taking off from Tehran, Times reporters and editors around the world sprang into action — including our increasingly sophisticated visual investigations team. 
The plane crashed a little after 6 a.m. Wednesday local time (shortly before 10 p.m. Eastern on Tuesday). Malachy Browne, a senior producer who previously investigated the 
On 
A native of Iran on Malachy’s team, Nilo Tabrizy, spoke with an Instagram user who had posted images of the wreckage. Other accounts and 
And by mapping the photos and analyzing structural damage and blood splatter on the ground, the team confirmed that the plane was turning back toward the airport when it crashed — crucial information in the still-developing account of what happened.
Now they’re mapping where debris landed and working with our reporter James Glanz and other aviation experts to analyze the clues.
When Nilo called her relatives in Iran to check on them, they told her not to be so “Western.” “Don’t worry!” they told her. They had, after all, lived through the Iran-Iraq war.
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time. 
— Mike