
Want to get The Morning by email? 
“It will be the first priority, the second priority and the third priority — to deal with Covid and bring down the spread and bring down the death rate,” President-elect Joe Biden told me during a phone call yesterday.
I had asked how he would try to persuade Americans to make one final push to change their behavior in early 2021 and reduce the virus’s spread. Doing so could save tens of thousands of lives.
His answer was full of details that make it clear he is listening to public health experts. He will 
The current rate of infection is “staggering,” Biden said. “It’s going to be incredibly high — the damage and the death toll.”
But I think his answer was also missing something important — something that will go a long way toward determining how successful he is in reducing Covid deaths. It was missing an emotional component.
In Biden’s view, Americans already understand the need to bring down the infection rate in the months ahead, while the vaccine 
That seems a bit optimistic. The number of new daily cases 
Yet it is also clear that our impatience is killing people. Almost 20,000 Americans died of confirmed Covid cases in the past week, and next week’s toll 
The start of Biden’s presidency will give him an opportunity to deliver not just a scientific message but also 
He has made some steps in this direction, like his plan to ask Americans to wear masks 
One of Biden’s greatest strengths is his ability to look on the positive side. It has allowed him to overcome personal tragedy and helped him win the presidency. But optimism alone doesn’t quite capture the situation with the virus. On the current path, many Americans will needlessly die in the first months of Biden’s presidency.
He expressed confidence in his ability to forge bipartisan compromises and said the same people doubting his ability to do so had previously questioned his ability to win the presidency. 
He cited a $15 minimum wage and climate policies as two areas where he was optimistic. 
Biden said he was appointing people 
He criticized the idea, 
President Trump granted clemency to Paul Manafort, his former campaign chairman; Roger Stone, his friend and confidant; Charles Kushner, the father of his son-in-law, Jared Kushner; and other loyalists in 
Trump 
Trump’s criticism of the virus stimulus bill has 
Bureaucratic problems have kept hospitals from using two promising antibody drugs to treat Covid, and 
A Black doctor in Indiana has died from complications of the virus, two weeks after posting a video on Facebook 
The resurgence of the virus 
The Washington Football Team 
Britain and the European Union 
A Hong Kong judge 
China 
The National Weather Service predicts a “
Rebecca Luker’s three decades on Broadway brought her three Tony Award nominations. But she did not identify as a show-tunes type. “I love rock music and jazz,” she said. “I love the ’70s stuff I grew up with.” 
By the late 1950s, Billy Strayhorn — the songwriter and Duke Ellington collaborator — was growing tired of rearranging classic swing tunes for Ellington’s band. So Strayhorn set himself a much more audacious challenge: Reimagine Tchaikovsky’s “Nutcracker” suite for big-band jazz.
Together, Strayhorn and Ellington spent months working on the project, both in person and on the phone. When Strayhorn was by himself, he would hum, whistle and even dance while writing the music, David Hajdu explains in 
The result was a masterpiece. Tchaikovsky’s “Dance of the Reed Flutes” became “Toot Toot Tootie Toot” and “Dance of the Sugar Plum Fairy” became “Sugar Rum Cherry.”
One of my favorite December traditions is to listen to a live performance of the piece. Unfortunately, that’s not possible this year. But there is an alternative: a new live recording of Ellington’s and Strayhorn’s “Nutcracker” by 
“Here’s hoping that come next year there will be a grand restoration of activities that we all do together,” Felten told me. Until then, we can still enjoy some great music.
This 
Essay collections from Joan Didion and George Saunders are among The Times’s list of 
The pangram from yesterday’s Spelling Bee was 
Here’s 
If you know someone who loves puzzles, consider 
P.S. Here are
You can see 
Today’s episode of “