
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering the latest on 
Despite rosy assessments of President Trump’s illness from his doctors, certain key medical details — including his fluctuating oxygen levels and a decision to begin treatment with a steroid drug — suggested to many infectious disease experts that he was 
The steroid dexamethasone, for instance, which the president’s medical team said he had been prescribed on Saturday, is usually reserved for those with severe illness, because it has not been shown to benefit those with milder forms of the disease and 
“Suddenly, they’re throwing the kitchen sink at him,” one physician said. “It raises the question: Is he sicker than we’re hearing, or are they being overly aggressive because he is the president, in a way that could be potentially harmful?”
Here are our 
In other virus developments:
New York City’s mayor is 
Saudi Arabia began lifting 
France reported about 17,000 new cases on Saturday as a surge in infections forced the closure of bars and restaurants in the southern port of Marseille.
Coronavirus cases in Britain are rising rapidly, with a record 12,871 new cases reported on Saturday evening. But as our correspondent Peter Goodman writes, 
Beyond the obvious ways that this cavalier behavior is disconcerting, it has enhanced a widely shared sense that Britain — famously rule-abiding — is now operating without adult supervision. Public confidence has plummeted, with more than half of respondents in a 
The current crisis seems exacerbated by an offshoot of the very virtue celebrated in Britain’s conventional historical narrative — an admirable refusal to bend. A national mantra, “keep calm and carry on,” seems to have been reconfigured into the misguided notion that nothing is amiss.
Sanda Dia, an ambitious Black student at a prestigious Belgian university, 
But a more troubling story of racism and intolerance has since emerged. Eighteen members of the now-disbanded fraternity, Reuzegom, are under investigation, with prosecutors recommending charges of involuntary manslaughter, degrading treatment and neglect.
The details, 
When the pandemic hit, many Asian countries, including Taiwan and South Korea, 
But despite repeated vows by Western nations to 
Super Mario Bros., arguably Nintendo’s most iconic video game, debuted almost exactly 35 years ago — catapulting a high-jumping plumber named Mario into global celebrity. We’ve compiled 
Thanks for joining me for today’s briefing. Have an excellent week.
— Natasha