
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering 
The drugmaker Moderna announced on Monday that 
Researchers said the results were better than they had dared to imagine. But though the company plans to apply for emergency authorization from the U.S. drug authorities within weeks, the vaccine will not be widely available for months.
The vaccine has a longer shelf life than previously reported: It can last 30 days in the refrigerator and 12 hours at room temperature, according to Moderna, potentially making it easier to store and use.
Here are 
In Spain, a raft of lawsuits has emerged contending that 
Japan became the latest major economy 
In a move that threatens to derail the bloc’s long-term budget, 
The two Eastern European countries said they would veto the spending bill because funding was conditioned on upholding rule-of-law standards, such as an independent judiciary, which the two governments have weakened as they have defiantly torn down separation of powers at home.
Their veto has thrown a signature achievement of the bloc into disarray, deepening a long-building standoff over its core principles and threatening to delay the stimulus money from getting to other member states, if a new agreement can be reached at all.
President-elect 
Mr. Biden spoke in favor of a national mask mandate and criticized the president and his advisers for attacking leaders of U.S. states that have imposed new restrictions to contain rising coronavirus case numbers. “What the hell’s the matter with these guys?” he said. “It’s totally irresponsible.”
His comments come at a critical time for the country’s economic recovery: Credit card data and other indicators suggest that consumers began to 
Earlier this month, Chris Nikic, above, became the first person with Down syndrome to 
Over 16 hours 46 minutes and 9 seconds, Mr. Nikic, 21, battled dehydration, exhaustion and an unfortunate encounter with a mound of red ants in his attempt to complete the course. “I learned that there are no limits,” he told The Times. “Do not put a lid on me.”
As the coronavirus has surged again in recent weeks, much of the U.S. has chosen to keep restaurants open and schools closed. Much of Europe has done the opposite.
The 
Many Americans have resisted accepting that reality. Across much of the country, restaurants remain open for indoor dining. Last week, New York State 
Closing schools and switching entirely to remote learning, on the other hand, has big social costs. Children are learning less, and many parents, mostly mothers, have dropped out of the labor force. The U.S. is suffering from both of these problems 
That’s it for this briefing. See you tomorrow. 
— Natasha