
Want to get The Morning by email? 
“Don’t be afraid of Covid,” President Trump tweeted, on the same day that the White House outbreak spread further and another several hundred Americans died from virus complications.
The president has survived Covid-19 so far, with help from more aggressive medical care than virtually any other American would have received. But about 210,000 of his fellow citizens have not survived, according to the official death count. The real toll, based on the number of excess deaths this year, is probably 
Given Trump’s campaign to make the virus seem like a minor inconvenience, I think it’s worth taking a minute this morning to take stock of the virus:
THE VIRUS
President Trump 
Dr. Sean Conley, the White House physician, said it would be another week until doctors could feel confident that Trump had beaten the virus. A preliminary plan calls for confining him to the White House residence, where he can receive 24-hour medical care, and keeping him away from the West Wing.
The White House has 
The Trump administration is 
A day after Mayor Bill de Blasio called for new restrictions in several New York City neighborhoods with outbreaks, Gov. Andrew Cuomo 
The 2020 Campaign
Joe Biden 
Plexiglass dividers meant to reduce the potential spread of the virus 
other big stories
Justices Clarence Thomas and Samuel Alito Jr. suggested that the Supreme Court 
Three scientists were 
In the latest escalation of the clash between Armenia and Azerbaijan, both sides fired large-caliber rockets, bombarding Stepanakert, the capital of an ethnic Armenian enclave. At least
John McAfee, 75, an antivirus software pioneer, 
Every day, a team of Times journalists works with reporters and editors around the world to create this newsletter — and help you make sense of the world. 
When it comes to saying things that are demonstrably untrue, Donald Trump has 
James Madison hid a severe intestinal ailment from Congress. Grover Cleveland underwent a secret surgery to remove a cancerous part of his jaw; his aides maintained he’d had a bad tooth. Woodrow Wilson’s wife deceived the public after Wilson suffered a debilitating stroke. Ronald Reagan’s doctor 
Franklin Roosevelt, who tried to conceal his paralysis, also hid the maladies that led to his fatal cerebral hemorrhage. Doctors initially characterized Dwight Eisenhower’s 1955 heart attack as “a digestive upset.” John F. Kennedy’s doctors denied he had Addison’s disease and kept the steroids he took for the condition under wraps.
“The history of presidential ailments points to a strong possibility that months, even years, will pass before the truth comes out” about Trump’s condition, 
But there’s at least one glaring difference in Trump’s case, my colleague 
While mapo tofu is available at many Chinese restaurants, it’s also 
Cineworld, the parent company of Regal Cinemas, announced that it would 
Last week, an industry group sent a letter to Congress, signed by more than 90 directors and producers, calling for financial aid that could help sustain theaters. They claim that if the industry doesn’t receive help, 69 percent of the country’s small and midsize movie theater companies will be at risk of closing.
“Imagine if you were on a cruise ship lost in the Bermuda Triangle — that’s about how bad the domestic cinema situation is right now,” one industry analyst 
At his best, Cameron Burrell can run 100 meters in less than 10 seconds, making him among the fastest sprinters in the world. But he’s also competing in the shadow of athletic legends: his own parents. His father, Leroy, is an Olympic gold medalist and the former world-record holder in the 100 meters. His mother, Michelle Finn-Burrell, has a sprint relay gold medal from the 1992 Olympics. His aunt was an Olympic long jumper, too, and one of his godfathers is a renowned sprinter.
Being the child of Olympic gold medalists can be both a blessing and a curse. The Times 
Take 
Here’s 
P.S. Join the Times technology reporter Nellie Bowles in conversation with Samin Nosrat and Hrishikesh Hirway about their new podcast, “Home Cooking.” 
You can see 
Today’s episode of “