
The eye-popping stock market debuts of Airbnb and DoorDash last week have led to the delay of at least one eagerly awaited I.P.O., as executives are taken aback by the strength of the tech stock craze.
Affirm, the e-commerce lender, also postponed its I.P.O., though a person with knowledge of the matter told DealBook it was in large part because of delays with the S.E.C. regulatory process.
Retail investors are a major factor in the frenzy, and it’s not clear how long they will continue to pay steep prices for a piece of high-growth tech companies. For now, that means companies looking to go public may retool their offerings to sell more shares to take advantage while it lasts, we hear.
Savage x Fenty, the lingerie company co-founded by the pop singer Rihanna, has hired Goldman Sachs to raise $100 million, sources tell DealBook. The company wants the money for new initiatives that may include new lines like athletic wear and expanding in Europe. The high-flying lingerie brand generates about $150 million in revenue, but is not yet profitable. The valuation it’s seeking in the funding round couldn’t be determined, though it is believed to be around $1 billion. (A representative for Goldman Sachs declined to comment, while Savage x Fenty did not respond to requests for comment.)
Rihanna started Savage x Fenty in 2018, aiming it at a broad range of body types. It is partly owned by Techstyle Fashion Group, the venture-backed company behind the actress Kate Hudson’s athleisure line Fabletics. Rihanna frequently promotes the brand on 
The 
Deadlines aren’t always do or die: Congress passed a stopgap funding bill to 
The 
In earnings, Zara’s parent, 
The pandemic and protests hastened a boom in online political advocacy. With P.R. “moving at the speed of Twitter” and a “new citizen rising up,” businesses are increasingly taking their messaging and lobbying efforts in-house and online, Jeb Ory, the C.E.O. of the public affairs platform Phone2Action, told DealBook.
Phil Minardi, the head of public affairs at Expedia, said the company got involved in “hyperlocal” digital advocacy when it acquired the vacation rental business HomeAway, and uses Phone2Action to “deliver real stories” to officials before they draft new regulations.
The latest debate in our DealBook D.C. Policy Project series is about 
The activist hedge fund Elliott Management has taken a stake in Public Storage and named six candidates for its board. (
Huntington Bancshares will buy another regional lender, TCF Financial, for nearly $6 billion. (
The discussion forum Reddit agreed to acquire Dubsmash, the lip-syncing app that competes with TikTok. (
As Europe seeks tighter reins over American tech giants, Silicon Valley is building up its lobbying operations in Brussels. (
Germany announced a new nationwide lockdown, closing nonessential stores and schools through Jan. 10 and limiting gatherings over the holidays. (
Denis Villeneuve, the director of Warner Bros.’ “Dune,” is 
“Apple TV Was Making a Show About Gawker. Then Tim Cook Found Out.” (
Can public shame deter the wealthy from trying to jump the line for Covid-19 vaccines? (
What’s on Dr. Anthony Fauci’s bookshelf: a Sicilian cookbook and a history of “all natural” product scams. (
John le Carré, the author whose spy novels made high art of Cold War thriller plotlines, died on Saturday. He was 89. (
We’d like your feedback! Please email thoughts and suggestions to 