
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering 
The number of coronavirus 
Testing sites in the U.S. were overwhelmed this past weekend in the hard-hit states of Arizona, Florida and Texas.
Coronavirus cases in the U.S. have risen 65 percent over the past two weeks, and now total more than 2.5 million.
“There’s also no doubt that the virus has the upper hand,” said Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, the former head of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
Florida, Nevada and South Carolina hit single-day records for new cases on Saturday, which was also the third consecutive day with more than 40,000 new cases in the country.
Here are our 
The Houthis, the Iran-backed militia that controls most of northern Yemen, have 
Polish voters were required to bring their own pens to polling stations and wear masks to take part in Europe’s 
Italy reported its lowest number of daily deaths since early March. And for the first time since the start of the pandemic, Spain’s capital region did not register a single virus fatality on Saturday, Isabel Díaz Ayuso, the regional leader of Madrid, said on Sunday. 
The Times is providing 
China’s top leader, Xi Jinping, has been eager to impose control over Hong Kong. That may finally happen this week.
Chinese lawmakers meeting in Beijing 
The legislation is expected to drastically curb political protest and dissent in Hong Kong and is moving forward despite threats from the U.S. to strip the territory of its special trade status.
Residents of the territory are still waiting to see the full text of the bill and even Hong Kong politicians who have endorsed the law, including the top local official, Carrie Lam, have said they have not been shown the full text by Beijing.
Some 291 Afghan soldiers were killed in Taliban attacks from June 19-25, according to the country’s National Security Council, making the week the war’s deadliest for Afghan forces. Taliban attacks in the past three months have soared nearly 40 percent compared with the same period last year.
The 
The deal has hit a wall over a prisoner exchange that was supposed to enable direct talks. Instead, the violence has intensified.
Afghan and American officials say the war has entered a complicated period of uncertainty. The insurgency, backed by some foreign countries in the region, is putting pressure on the Kabul government by cranking up bloody attacks, often without claiming them.
Dr. Camilla Rothe, above, and her colleagues at the Munich University Hospital were among the first to warn the world that the coronavirus could spread from people who had not yet developed symptoms.
But even as evidence mounted from other scientists about symptomless spreading, health officials dismissed the finding as unimportant. Our reporters pieced together 
I sensed right from the start that this musical, with its cast made up mostly of actors of color and its score influenced by hip-hop and pop music, was going to be a huge story. I remember being determined, that summer, to land an article about the production on the front page, convinced that the paper needed to make a big early statement about the show as a game-changing reflection on our culture, our politics and our history. Ultimately, 
The story I waited longest for was about 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Carole