
Good morning.
We’re covering 
The U.S. Senate has 
Wednesday’s verdict, delivered almost entirely along party lines, ends the third presidential impeachment trial in American history. 
The coronavirus, which has a mortality rate of about 2 percent, has now killed at least 563 people and infected more than 28,000 others. 
In a dispatch from Wuhan, the epicenter of the outbreak, our chief China correspondent 
Wuhan’s expressways are empty, and lives that seemed secure a month ago are now in a disorienting limbo. “Is it Sunday or Monday?” one resident asked. “You forget because all normal activity has stopped. Ordinary people have just their families and their phones.”
The 
Such incidents are part of a feud that may have implications for the future of Britain’s public broadcaster. Mr. Johnson’s government wants to stop prosecuting people who fail to pay a compulsory £154-a-year BBC license fee, saying that should be handled in civil, not criminal, proceedings. 
But analysts say doing so would cost the BBC from £350 million to £400 million a year, or roughly 10 percent of its budget, and force draconian cuts in staff and programming.
Large areas of Europe went from being cropland to woods in the decades after World War II, and the Continent is now one of the most forest-rich regions in the world. 
But it’s also ripe for wildfires, which release planet-warming carbon from burning trunks and branches. Last year they raged as far north as Sweden. 
Banksy’s rise from tagger to renowned artist comes partly thanks to 
But is Banksy a historically significant artist? One of his works, which famously self-destructed at an auction, is now on display beside a Rembrandt in a German museum. But one expert calls him “a conceptualist prankster, à la Duchamp, whose gestures may be more lasting than the work itself.”
Traditionally the fashion flock hates Milan. But I actually quite enjoy Milan. I really like the food, the weather tends to be better and the schedule is usually more human. But for just the sheer material, it’s Paris, hands down.
Remember, you’re reviewing four to 10 shows a day for weeks. So I’m really happy to have something to think about, something of substance that I can agree or disagree with.
The really hard thing is when you get a commercial collection and, really, it’s just a great skirt. And that’s just four words, and you have 800 words to go.
The shows are the only pure expression of the designers’ ideas of their own clothes. They control the hair, clothes, makeup, music. 
That means that they have to have an idea about women, their lives and what’s happening in the world — the problems the designers are solving for them.
We just got an email from a young new British designer who’s Asian and who produces his clothes in Shanghai. China just closed down his factory, and he can’t get his collection. So he’s not going to be able to have a show this season.
We’re going to be watching if Chinese models can come, if the Chinese clients who usually come do. And then what this means for supply chains and sales. The Chinese consumer is an enormously important part of these brands’ customer bases. And if they’re not moving and they’re not shopping, it’s going to be a real issue. 
[Laughter]. Oh, no! Beforehand, I try to be “normal” but, once it starts, it all goes out the window. I have a terrible diet and literally zero physical fitness. Honestly, my diet is coffee, soda, champagne, bread, chocolate and occasionally a green juice. Then I think, Good, you’re doing something for yourself.
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Mike