
It may seem an unusual pairing: big businesses and 
“An economic system that is fair, trustworthy, and capable of addressing the most profound challenges facing humanity and our planet is urgently needed,” Francis said in a statement.
For reference, here are 
Years ago, the Uber co-founder Travis Kalanick called the company’s Advanced Technologies Group “existential” for the business. Now, Uber is paying a start-up to 
Google’s self-driving car affiliate, Waymo, accused Otto’s founder, Anthony Levandowski, of stealing trade secrets. Uber and Waymo eventually 
A self-driving Uber car 
Uber’s investors have long called for it to cut ties with the project, in hopes of stemming steep losses. (In 2018, Uber took a $500 million investment from Toyota to help keep the unit alive.) Those demands grew louder as the pandemic battered the company’s finances.
Etsy is known as a site where artisans and small businesses sell wares like handmade face masks. But it’s also something else, 
Engine No. 1, a new E.S.G.-focused investment firm founded by former activist investors, is taking on an ambitious target for its first campaign: Exxon Mobil. It thinks that by combining the traditional activist investor playbook — agitating for actions that boost shareholder returns — with long-term social and environmental concerns, it has a shot at succeeding where social activists, environmentalists and others 
Under its current C.E.O., Darren Woods, Exxon has continued to expand its exploration and production operations, acting on what Engine 
Engine will need powerful allies. Exxon is worth $172 billion, and the fund only has a $40 million stake. It says it already has the support of CalSTRS, the country’s second-largest pension fund, which owns another $300 million or so.
The online lender SoFi has reportedly held talks to go public by merging with a SPAC. (
Bob Dylan agreed to sell the rights to his songwriting catalog to Universal Music Group for potentially more than $300 million, the biggest such deal by a single songwriter. (
A new investment firm plans a fund to bet against privately held start-ups. (
President-elect Joe Biden plans to name Gen. Lloyd Austin as secretary of Defense. He would be the first Black man in the role. (
The District of Columbia’s attorney general is investigating whether President Trump’s family improperly profited from its Washington hotel. (
A Senate fight is brewing over Mr. Trump’s nomination of Nathan Simington to the F.C.C., with control of the commission at stake. (
A second federal judge blocked the Trump administration’s move to ban downloads of TikTok in the U.S. (
Shares in Palantir jumped after the data-mining company won a three-year contract from the Food and Drug Administration to help with drug approvals. (
European tech companies are set to raise $41 billion this year, a record, despite the pandemic. (
Paul Sarbanes, the former Maryland senator who co-authored the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, a sweeping overhaul of accounting regulations in the wake of scandals like Enron, died on Sunday. He was 87. (
MSNBC named Rashida Jones as its next president, making her the highest-ranking Black woman in American TV news. (
Chuck Yeager, the first test pilot to break the sound barrier, who was immortalized in Tom Wolfe’s book “The Right Stuff,” died yesterday. He was 97. (
We’d like your feedback! Please email thoughts and suggestions to 