
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering more countries 
At least 12 countries, including Germany, Greece, Italy and Spain, 
In Germany, some children returned to schools. Spain kicked off a plan to reach normalcy by June, starting by reopening small stores and hair salons. France is preparing to slowly lift restrictions starting May 11. And 
Many throughout Europe expressed wariness mixed with hope as authorities warned they would shut down society again if infection rose.
“I have been doing as much cleaning as cutting so far,” said one hairdresser in Barcelona.
The 
Here are the 
Moscow long rejected OPEC’s pleas to reduce oil output, citing its cold climate. Now, facing a glut, 
Border closures, suspended asylum programs and stay-at-home orders have 
Australia and New Zealand are moving closer toward creating a 
World leaders launched a campaign on Monday to 
The Isle of Wight, off England’s southern coast, is 
The Trump administration has predicted that the death toll from the coronavirus in the U.S. 
Futures markets predicted positive openings for Wall Street and European markets. Follow our 
The Times is providing free access to 
China’s leaders 
The push to win the vaccine race seems to be working: Four companies in China have begun testing their vaccine candidates on humans, more than the U.S. and Britain combined. One senior official estimated a vaccine for emergency use could be ready by September.
But critics point to the industry’s history of quality problems and scandals. Just two years ago, Chinese parents were furious after they discovered ineffective vaccines had been given to babies — meaning producers will have to regain public trust.
Relations between Britain’s government and its news media had thawed somewhat after Queen Elizabeth II appealed for solidarity, and an ill Prime Minister Boris Johnson was hospitalized.
But with the death toll continually rising — 
The government has responded to scrutiny of its actions with aggressive rebuttals and critiques of the news media — populist tactics reminiscent of those used during the Brexit campaign.
After hours of quiet as most people work from home, the time before dusk brings bursts of human noise.
Our Sydney bureau chief wrote about 
Many of us feel compelled to end the days of pandemic loneliness with this kind of connection outdoors, sociologists say.
Making the most of life in isolation is no small feat. Our readers in the U.S. and beyond 
Like a lot of us lately, I’ve been struggling with how to deal with feelings of anxiety and fear, but seeing the sakura trees in full bloom along the route I walk to and from work has provided some well-needed comfort. The cherry blossoms in Japan are a well-known metaphor for the fleeting nature of beauty, but it was only after the outbreak that I found a way to truly appreciate them and their message. Maybe after all this is over, the post-corona society that emerges will start considering the everyday things we take for granted more like sakura flowers: beautiful, but not guaranteed to last forever.
Cutting my mother-in-law’s hair. She said it made her feel like a new person.
Adrianna, our daughter, came to stay with us, bringing her cat. It has been a blessing to get to spend so much time with her. I absolutely love it. We make bread, dinner and desserts together, and all three of us laugh like little kids. I almost never want it to end.
That’s it for this briefing. Here’s 
— Isabella