
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering 
The World Health Organization on Thursday warned of a “very serious” 
The number of virus cases has increased by more than 10 percent in the past two weeks in over half the countries of Europe. In seven of those countries, the number of cases has doubled. The region has recorded at least 220,000 deaths from the virus.
In France, cities including Lyon and Nice have experienced a worrying rise in cases and will have to enact new restrictions on public gatherings. The country's rate per capita of new cases over the last seven days is 
Here are the 
Starting Friday, nearly two million people in northeast England will be restricted from meeting with anyone outside their households.
New Zealand has entered its first recession in a decade. New data showed that the economy shrank 12.2 percent in the second quarter, the country’s biggest fall on record.
Australia intends to increase the number of people who can enter the country each week by about 2,000, starting from the end of next week.
In the Czech Republic, roughly a quarter of the country’s 41,000 total cases were reported over the last week as the country battled one of the fastest-growing outbreaks in Europe.
In the Babel Tower of French politics, everyone agrees at least on this: Crime is out of control.
Except — it isn’t. Despite warnings from the 
Instead, 
Long-simmering European frustrations with Chinese policies, on matters as varied as trade and human rights, have reached a boiling point this year in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. For Beijing, it’s a problem: China had 
For China’s leader, Xi Jinping, a lasting shift in European views poses an enormous challenge. In the short term, it threatens to undermine the country’s post-pandemic economic recovery by stifling new investments as the United States restricts them, especially in high tech. In the longer term, it could blunt his ambitions for China to offer an alternative to the United States as the global leader dictating the rules for governance and trade.
At 26, Jennifer Laude died at the hands of an American she had met at a nightclub, a Marine who was in the Philippines for joint military exercises. After discovering that Ms. Laude was transgender, Lance Cpl. Joseph Scott Pemberton choked her and pushed her head into a toilet bowl until she drowned.
Human rights advocates had been fighting to hold American service members accountable for violence against women in the Philippines for years. The Marine’s conviction seemed to be a step in the right direction. But on Sept. 13, Lance Corporal Pemberton was put aboard a U.S. military plane and flown out of the Philippines, a free man. He had served less than six years. Our reporter 
Throughout the pandemic, there has been speculation about why some communities seem to be hit harder than others or why one country might suddenly experience a greater rate of fatality than its neighbor, including strained hypotheses about different versions of the virus and dubious race-based claims about how Covid-19 affects different demographic groups.
Donald G. McNeil Jr., a science and health reporter for The Times who covers infectious diseases and global health, said that differences in outbreaks are often simply a matter of time.
“Once a case, or a few cases, arrive, it can spread exponentially,” he said. “But with borders as nonporous as they are these days, it may take days or weeks for one or a few cases to arrive in a new country.” The severity of an outbreak might also reveal something about a particular place, its approach to containing the virus or the population in the line of fire, he said.
In Belgium, for instance, which had the highest death rate per capita on the European continent, The 
According to a New York Times database, one of the countries logging the highest rates of deaths per capita is Peru, which is suffering a shortage of oxygen to administer to patients. “Up to 20 percent of all symptomatic Covid cases need oxygen to survive,” Donald said. “In Peru, the two companies that made oxygen served only the lucrative private hospitals, so there was a huge oxygen shortage there; plus much of the population lives at high altitude where oxygen is short anyway.”
We’ll have more on that topic soon.
Thanks for joining me for this week’s briefings. See you on Monday.
— Natasha