
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering the world reaching 
The number of coronavirus 
The grim milestone came as countries struggled to keep new infections at bay while also emerging from painful lockdowns.
The European Union will 
Cases in the U.S. have risen 65 percent over the past two weeks — they now total more than 2.5 million. Some administration officials, including Vice President Mike Pence, have said that increased testing explains the surge in cases, but health officials say otherwise.
Testing sites in the U.S. were overwhelmed over the weekend in the hard-hit states of Arizona, Florida and Texas.
Here are our 
The Houthis, the Iran-backed militia that controls most of northern Yemen, have 
Italy reported its 
As public scrutiny of 
One not-yet-published study suggests the new 
United States intelligence officers in Afghanistan warned superiors as early as January of a suspected Russian plot to 
The recovery of large amounts of American cash at a Taliban outpost and interrogations of captured militants and criminals helped determine that Russians had offered and paid bounties in 2019, one official told our reporters.
Military and intelligence officials are reviewing whether American and other coalition casualties were victims of the plot. They believe bounties led to at least one death of a U.S. service member, two officials said.
Poland’s president, Andrzej Duda, fell short of securing a majority of the vote on Sunday in 
Turnout was high and voters at polling stations wore masks, brought their own pens and waited in lines with three feet of personal space in all directions.
The country’s nationalist party has made judicial changes that E.U. leaders say threaten independence and turned public television into the government’s propaganda arm.
Dr. Camilla Rothe, above, and her colleagues at Munich University Hospital were among the first to warn the world that people without symptoms could spread the coronavirus.
But even as evidence mounted from other scientists about symptomless transmission, health officials dismissed the finding. Our reporters pieced together 
I sensed right from the start that this musical, with its cast made up mostly of actors of color and its score influenced by hip-hop and pop music, was going to be a huge story. I remember being determined, that summer, to land an article about the production on the front page, convinced that the paper needed to make a big early statement about the show as a game-changing reflection on our culture, our politics and our history. Ultimately, 
The story I waited longest for was about 
That’s it for this briefing. Here’s 
— Isabella