
Want to get The Morning by email? 
The first White House picketers were suffragists. Through a world war and a flu pandemic, they 
“They wanted to be the first thing the president saw every morning and the last thing he saw at night,” said Veronica Chambers, the lead editor on a Times project commemorating the 100th anniversary of women’s suffrage.
A century ago today, the United States ratified the 19th Amendment, enshrining a woman’s right to vote in the Constitution. But the 
“Many historians talk about the suffrage movement continuing at least until 1965,” when the Voting Rights Act passed, Veronica said. “The timeline of how long women in the U.S. have had political power and independence is not as long as we tend to think it is.”
Today, the fight for voting rights feels as relevant as ever. 
The Times is commemorating the centennial of women’s suffrage by focusing on lesser-known women who were crucial to the fight, from 
Here’s 
Black suffragists recognized the power of photographs as a political tool and 
To understand the suffragists, and why their battle took so long, you also have to 
Postmaster General Louis DeJoy agreed to testify to Congress next week about cost-cutting measures at the Postal Service, changes that have fueled fears that the Trump administration is trying to depress voting by mail during the coronavirus pandemic.
The House is expected to vote this week on a bill that would reverse DeJoy’s cuts and provide an additional $25 billion to support mail voting. But the crisis of confidence 
Democrats opened their presidential nominating convention last night with a virtual program that spanned the ideological gamut, featuring speeches from the left-wing Senator Bernie Sanders and two former Republican governors. 
The final address of the night came from the former first lady Michelle Obama, who delivered 
The Trump administration finalized plans yesterday to 
Though any oil production would still be at least a decade in the future, the administration said it hoped to sell leases on the land by the end of the year. Environmentalists and Alaska Native groups are expected to file lawsuits to try to block the sales.
Aleksandr Lukashenko has ruled Belarus for 26 years, backed by a brutal and loyal security apparatus. But as protests rage against the rigged election this month that kept him in power, 
Even former bastions of support are wavering, outraged by police violence against protesters. On a visit to a tractor factory yesterday, Lukashenko was shouted down by chants of “Go away! Go away!”
The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill became the first big university 
U.N.C. officials identified four clusters of infections in student housing facilities, including one at the Sigma Nu fraternity. And The Times has linked 
Part of Death Valley reached 130 degrees Fahrenheit on Sunday. If verified by climate scientists, it would be 
A federal judge 
Two men were 
“The Ellen DeGeneres Show” 
The Democratic National Convention featured an unlikely speaker last night: 
But there’s a debate among some “Never Trump” Republicans over how far to go in supporting Democrats and opposing Trump. Here are three ways they’re thinking about their choice this November.
Chaat is hard to define but easy to crave. It refers to a category of Indian snacks that can be made from virtually anything, with a “combination of contrasting textures and sweet, salty, tangy and spicy flavors,” 
For a quick, no-cook dinner, follow the chef Maneet Chauhan’s 
“Summer,” the final novel in the author Ali Smith’s seasonal quartet, carries on the previous entries’ convention of addressing the day’s news, from Brexit to wildfires in Australia. This installment includes the coronavirus pandemic seeping into its protagonists’ lives.
The book, 
Keanu Reeves and Alex Winter first played friends in “Bill & Ted’s Excellent Adventure,” the 1989 time-traveling slacker comedy. Three decades later, they remain friends in real life, dude, and will reunite onscreen for a long-awaited third entry to the franchise. “Bill & Ted Face the Music,” which will be released this month, follows the dopey duo’s muddle through middle age, and sees their daughters take up the best friend mantle.
“There’s very little constancy in this business,” Winter said in 
Escape to 
The late-night comedy hosts 
Here’s 
P.S. “Finish the Fight,” an original play that brings to life the biographies of lesser-known activists, premieres at 7 Eastern tonight. The virtual performance is free; 
David Leonhardt, this newsletter’s usual writer, is on break until Monday.
You can see 
Today’s episode of “