
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering 
Russia is planning 
Officials said amid accelerated testing that approval would be expected this month — far earlier than the end-of-the-year date suggested by Western regulators. Winning the global race would be a symbol of national pride.
But critics say Russia has cut corners in research on other products, and the U.S., Canadian and British governments have accused Russian hackers of trying to steal vaccine research.
Separately, the world’s largest vaccine maker, the Serum Institute is betting on a vaccine that is in trials with Oxford University scientists. The company plans to
An estimated 17,000 people 
Italy has gone from 
Here are the 
Few countries have worked harder than Britain to please President Trump. But with Mr. Trump trailing in the polls to former Vice President Joseph Biden Jr., 
In Paris and Berlin, a Trump defeat would be welcomed given he has split alliances, threatened a trade war and tried to dismantle the European project. But in Mr. Biden, Britain would face a president who opposed Brexit, would look out for Ireland and who may have little interest in a trade deal.
European governments and foreign investors 
And it seems to be working. The man who a year ago insisted “the Amazon is ours” has set up a military operation to defend it and banned intentional forest fires used for clearing — though environmentalists and foreign officials who have pressed Brazil on conservation matters worry that the actions are little more than damage control given the economy is in deep trouble.
Germany has begun dealing with far-right networks that officials say are far more extensive than they had understood.
Our correspondent takes a look at the Northern Cross group, which had planned for “Day X” — a mythical moment when committed far-right extremists would 
My father left behind written notes and newspaper clippings, stacks of passports with visas, photos and transcripts from his first and subsequent trips to China. They have allowed me to imagine conversations that we might have had in the six years since he died. Conversations about how the country he saw back then — brimming with hope and enthusiasm yet also tightly controlled — is in some ways the same today.
His first trip to China spanned two months and thousands of miles. He met Mao Zedong (whom he tapped on the shoulder from behind his camera, mistaking the chairman for a “humble courtier” blocking his shot) and Zhou Enlai, the premier and foreign minister at the time. But he also talked with factory workers, actors, newspaper editors and shop owners.
He described being filled with hope for the human spirit he witnessed. But he also felt despair because a government-provided handler was never too far away, ready to silence anyone who veered too far from the Communist Party line.
China defied any broad-brush statement. “And yet,” he wrote in one notebook, “under the current leadership, the way in which the government silences alternative points of view makes it hard not to.”
A version of this exists today. I have a long list of names of people who wouldn’t talk to me because I work for The New York Times, portrayed in Chinese state media as the source of “smears and lies.” Sources I’ve interviewed privately are later threatened by the local police, while stridently nationalist rhetoric dominates the state media.
Several months after I returned to Hong Kong, the Chinese government in March expelled my American colleagues as part of a diplomatic dispute with the United States. In the past month, Beijing has tightened its grip over Hong Kong with a new national security law, threatening free speech and other civil liberties in the city.
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time. 
— Isabella