
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering what reopenings look like in countries with 
India has more new daily coronavirus infections than all but the United States and Brazil. But, ready or not, much of India’s lockdown has ended, as have those in other countries struggling to balance economic damage with coronavirus risk.
Some leaders, especially in the developing world, said they couldn’t sustain the punishing lockdowns without risking economic catastrophe for their poorest citizens.
Our correspondents 
The Times is providing free access to 
At a time when the unrest in the United States is prompting many Britons to examine their own society’s racial injustice, Prime Minister 
Mr. Johnson was late to address the protests in London and other cities after George Floyd’s death. He has oscillated between calls for law and order and promises to listen to black Britons.
After a week in which protesters battled the police outside his residence and spray-painted the word “racist” on a Winston Churchill memorial, Mr. Johnson said on Wednesday that “black lives matter" but did not condemn President Trump.
Follow 
Relations between President Trump and President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey were in the worst state in recent memory 10 months ago — heading toward clashes between their armies across the Syrian-Turkish border.
But as the coronavirus threatens recession and rallies their opponents,
“To be honest, after our conversation tonight, a new era can begin between the United States and Turkey,” Mr. Erdogan said afterward.
An environmental disaster is unfolding in Russia’s Far North, where
Today I conducted training for the White Helmets [a Syrian civil defense group].
There were two teams, each with 10 people. We did two sessions to avoid crowding.
The next morning, I woke at 5 a.m., and we modified slides for the lecture. The slides outline the criteria for sending people to health facilities. They also tell people how to handle dead bodies.
The trainees from the White Helmets are very interested. Their motto, I learned, is from the Quran: “Whoever saves the life of one, it is as if he saves the life of all mankind.”
The whole day my mood was very bad, because my tooth infection had moved from my mouth to my eye, and it was very painful. I started to look like a teddy bear.
Yesterday a friend called me. He was looking for a ventilator for his newborn baby. All of the hospital ventilators were busy — and still we don’t have a single coronavirus case.
If that is happening, it means the medical capacity is very poor.
Today I felt depressed: I heard the baby died.
There is something very important going on these days. It is not about the coronavirus.
It is about the people. They are in a very difficult situation. Everything is super-expensive now. The dollar is rising, and the Syrian pound is on the floor. The rate of $1 is 1,500 Syrian pounds. People are going crazy. God help the people with Ramadan, coronavirus and high prices. God help the people.
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time. 
— Isabella