
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering 
Anti-racism protesters flooded the streets in 
Despite warnings from some leaders about the coronavirus, thousands turned out in Australia, Britain, France, 
Follow 
But, he added, “I think we have to recognize that for most of our history, our institutions were explicitly racist.”
With summer tourist season approaching, leaders in Western Europe are embracing 
Italy and Germany, for example, are reopening more widely. Others — like Switzerland, Denmark and the Baltic States — are opting for “travel bubbles,” a selective list of countries from which travelers can enter. Both strategies have drawn criticism, with caveats that borders will close again if cases surge.
And while over half of Europeans view their government’s response favorably, 
In other developments:
New York City 
The coronavirus has made 
As part of their coronavirus response, Britain offered 
A British laboratory is 
The coronavirus, so lethal to the old, has 
It has hastened the deaths of witnesses to the Holocaust and the birth of fascism, and canceled anniversary commemorations that would have offered them a final chance to share their experiences.
And it means political forces may recast history, as radical right-wing parties have moved from the fringes and into parliaments.
Illegal loggers, miners and land grabbers have cleared vast areas of the Amazon in recent months as the pandemic has hobbled law enforcement efforts in Brazil, which is now reporting the highest daily number of coronavirus deaths in the world.
Our reporters take a look at 
Zolan Kanno-Youngs, our Homeland Security correspondent, has been covering the protests against police brutality and racism in Washington, D.C. He 
You have to be willing to get a bit uncomfortable in pursuit of actually documenting the reality, the truth, of a situation.
You’re going to have many people there who are suffering trauma, who are perhaps distrustful of the news media, and I think one thing I needed to accept was getting over that wall of going to someone who didn’t want to speak to me and convincing them to.
Being a black journalist, I’m going to come to the situation with a perspective and a background that other reporters may not have. I think that approaching these situations with that perspective can actually get at one of the more crucial necessities when it comes to this reporting, which is empathy — to have the ability to understand, not just transcribe, where a person who is experiencing the trauma of the situation could be coming from.
I have to acknowledge that there have been documented reports of abuses of authority and violent incidents. I think it’s ever more important to be present to this situation in order to document any of those incidents against anybody.
But speaking generally, there’s that cliché that reporting is documenting the first draft of history. Protests are the early seeds of a movement that could shape the future of this country, that could determine policy change, that could determine who will be in power. But at the very root of it, it also shows the mind-set and the feelings of the people in this country right now. This really is the root of our reporting. This is a prime example of why we do what we do.
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time. 
— Isabella