
Lawmakers
$284 billion to revive the lapsed 
$25 billion in rental assistance and eviction moratoriums
A tax break for corporate meal expenses derided by critics as a deduction for “
A ban on most 
Mr. Biden suggested he’d pursue more aid: “This action in the lame-duck session is just the beginning. Our work is far from over.”
Today, Tesla is officially 
Late on Friday, the Treasury Department 
“The process for this rule is entirely out of order,” 
“Bad process for a bad rule,” 
“It doesn’t follow the correct process, and we’ll be challenging it,” said Brian Armstrong, the Coinbase C.E.O. who 
Efforts to oust Dan Snyder, the majority owner of the N.F.L.’s Washington Football Team, 
Mastercard stopped processing credit card payments for Pornhub after The Times columnist Nick Kristof wrote that the site distributed videos of child abuse and sexual assault. On 
“I have to follow a legal standard. I’m not trying to follow a moral standard. If I did, I personally abhor all kinds of things to do with gun sales as well. I don’t own a gun. I also abhor things to do with porn. But you know what? That’s not what this is about. There are laws in a country, and we’re trying to work within the laws.”
SoftBank is expected to launch a SPAC that will seek to raise up to $600 million. (
AT&T is reportedly disappointed with bids for its DirecTV division and may call off the sales process. (
Two payments giants, FIS and Global Payments, are said to have held talks to merge in a deal potentially valued at $70 billion, though negotiations broke down. (
The chairman of the Senate environmental committee suggested that Republicans would resist confirming Jennifer Granholm, President-elect Joe Biden’s nominee for energy secretary, over her previous comments criticizing fossil fuels. (
Advisers to Mr. Biden are reportedly weighing retaliation against Russian infrastructure in response to a major hack thought to have been ordered by the Kremlin. (
President Trump signed into law a bill that could delist Chinese companies from U.S. exchanges unless American auditors review their books. (
How the antitrust cases against Big Tech companies are 
The businesses of Intel and Nvidia are increasingly threatened by their best customers. (
Inside the disastrous rollout of the video game Cyberpunk 2077, and what the fallout might be for the industry. (
Working from home has given some employees more power to push back on busywork. (
Companies rushed to embrace corporate diversity training — but follow-up has been lacking. (
How a reporter fell for the “pharma bro” Martin Shkreli. (
We’d like your feedback! Please email thoughts and suggestions to 