
Goldman Sachs is one of Wall Street’s best-known firms, its identity indelibly tied to New York. Yet it may move at least some parts of a major division to Florida, with costs and the pandemic in mind.
Goldman already bases some operations outside of New York: It has been building up its investor relations team in Dallas, while its Marcus consumer-lending division is in Salt Lake City. A spokesman for the bank told DealBook that it is “executing on the strategy of locating more jobs in high value locations throughout the U.S.,” but it has “no specific plans to announce at this time.”
Neiman Marcus, which emerged from bankruptcy in September, will announce today that it is naming Paul Brown as its nonexecutive chair. Mr. Brown, who runs Arby’s parent 
“We had a strong belief that when you transform you need to be diverse in your thoughts,” said Geoffroy van Raemdonck, Neiman Marcus’s C.E.O., who told DealBook that the company’s 
Negotiators from Britain and the E.U. will try to 
The Food and Drug Administration 
In a light week for earnings, 
Last week’s $4.2 billion deal by the Irish bookmaker Flutter to buy near-total control of the New York-based fantasy sports site FanDuel made waves in the gambling industry. There’s reason to think it won’t be the last big money move.
Flutter itself is a product of M.&A. activity, having sold a small stake to the casino operator Boyd Interactive Gaming and bought PokerStars’s parent company last year for $6 billion. Fox Sports, which formed a relationship with Flutter through the PokerStars deal, has the option to buy an 18.5 percent stake in FanDuel next summer.
FanDuel’s chief rival, DraftKings, went public this year by merging with a SPAC backed by the Hollywood executives Harry Sloan and Jeff Sagansky. Disney, which owns ESPN, is one of the biggest shareholders in DraftKings.
Penn National Gaming announced earlier this year that it will buy a minority stake in Barstool Sports.
The House of Representatives on Friday passed the first cannabis liberalization bill to ever make it to the floor of Congress —
A government-imposed deadline for TikTok to finalize its sale to Oracle and Walmart lapsed on Friday, but the Trump administration will let the negotiations continue. (
Paysafe, an online payments company backed by Blackstone and CVC Capital, is reportedly in talks to go public by merging with a SPAC run by Bill Foley. (
The pet supplies retailer Petco filed to go public on the Nasdaq — ticker symbol “WOOF” — as it benefited from a pandemic-driven surge in spending on furry companions. (
A government watchdog found no evidence of wrongdoing in the Trump administration’s now-halted $765 million loan to Kodak to help the company pivot to pharmaceutical ingredients. (
President-elect Joe Biden picked Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, as his nominee for secretary of health and human services. (
Britain’s Parliament released a report chiding the Bank of England for failing to keep tabs on $67 billion in cash that vanished from the country’s money supply. (
Google is reportedly weighing whether to penalize Barry Diller’s IAC over alleged deceptive marketing practices. (
The gaming company Activision Blizzard sued Netflix, accusing the streaming giant of poaching its then-C.F.O. in violation of his employment contract. (
“The pandemic was great for Zoom. What happens when there’s a vaccine?” (
The Cheesecake Factory settled charges by the S.E.C. that it misled public investors about its financial health during the pandemic. (
An in-depth chronicle of how the C.E.O. of the industrial giant Emerson Electric grappled with the pandemic. (
Why OnlyFans, the subscriptions site, might be worth a billion dollars. (
We’d like your feedback! Please email thoughts and suggestions to 