
Given how many complex and interconnected problems the United States facing, solutions can seem daunting. Specific, actionable ideas to address the most pressing ones — regarding the economy, health care, the environment and more — are often hard to come by.
That’s why this year we undertook a special project. We canvassed a cross-section of leading thinkers and asked them: If you could do one thing right now to help fix the country — no matter how large or small — what would it be?
Their answers are collected in a new report, “
Even modest housing deregulation, such as upzoning to allow taller structures, can substantially increase the supply of housing in the most prosperous areas of the country. This promotes economic migration to these areas, which can reduce poverty and inequality by giving lower-income workers greater access to higher-wage labor markets.
Birthright funds would be invested at birth in zero-cost equity index funds; be prohibited from withdrawal until retirement; and would compound tax-free for 65 years or more. At historical rates of equity returns of 8 percent annually, a $6,750 at-birth retirement account — which would cost the government $26 billion annually based on the average number of children born in the U.S. each year — would provide retirement assets of more than $1 million at age 65, or $2 million at age 74.
Appropriately triaged calls involving mental health crises coming into an emergency dispatch center can assure “the right work in the right hands” and help 911 center call takers, police officers and mental health personnel work together to provide persons in crisis with the best possible care.
Here is my proposed solution, to be applied one conversation at a time: When confronted with a different view, try to find something you can agree on. You don’t have to change your views. Just be open to the fact that others have theirs, too. It may sound counterintuitive. But it’s the only place to start.
Governments must do more — especially when the reality of Covid-19 requires distance learning in so many schools across America. Giving children the necessary digital tools will help equalize education to meet this unique moment and enable a brighter future.
For more ideas, including Senator Chris Murphy 
After reading it, tell us the one thing that you would propose to help fix America, at 
Jaws dropped in Hollywood after WarnerMedia said yesterday that all 17 of its Warner Bros. movie releases next year, including potential blockbusters like “The Suicide Squad” and “Dune,” will 
WarnerMedia executives were coy about whether this was a one-year plan or a permanent shift: “I have no grand pronouncements,” Mr. Kilar 
A deep dive into the “happiness U-curve.” (
Inequality in financing means that Black-owned start-ups start smaller, and stay smaller, in their crucial early years. (
People often hide their success to avoid colleagues’ envy, but the positive effects of sharing outweigh the risks. (
After months of partisan struggle, and days before Congress goes on recess, Democrats and Republicans have agreed to try to agree on an economic relief bill. Yesterday, Nancy Pelosi, the House speaker, and Mitch McConnell, the Senate majority leader, 
In the days ahead, Mr. Malhotra said negotiators should “focus on the interests, not the positions, try to limit public posturing, respect each other’s red lines, and make wise trades and defensible concessions.” That assumes, of course, that they really want to get to yes.
Two coal producers, White Stallion Energy and Lighthouse Resources, filed for bankruptcy protection as the industry struggles with falling demand. (
The betting company Flutter Entertainment will pay $4.2 billion to raise its stake in FanDuel, the fantasy sports site, to 95 percent. (
The private equity firm Thoma Bravo is reportedly planning to launch a SPAC. (
Blackstone’s Steve Schwarzman and Citadel’s Ken Griffin are among the biggest Republican donors pouring money into Georgia’s Senate runoff elections. (
British officials accused France of threatening to scuttle Brexit talks with tough new trade demands. (
“In Blue States and Red, Pandemic Upends Public Services and Jobs” (
The C.F.O. of Huawei, Meng Wanzhou, is reportedly in talks with U.S. prosecutors over a deal that would let her return home to China from Canada in exchange for admitting to violating sanctions on Iran. (
The payments processor Stripe will partner with Goldman Sachs and Citigroup to offer checking accounts and other banking products. (
A coming E.U. digital privacy rule would hurt investigators’ ability to search for online child sexual abuse, government and company officials say. (
Betsy Wade, the first woman to edit news copy at The Times and the lead plaintiff in a landmark sex discrimination lawsuit against the company, died yesterday. She was 91. (
Find your place in the vaccine line. (
The skyrocketing use of Zoom in the pandemic may be linked to a boom in plastic surgery. (
We’d like your feedback! Please email thoughts and suggestions to 