
Voters in 
Polls of 
Polls of mail-in voters show 52 percent in support.
Polls of mail-in voters show 54 percent in support.
Late Saturday, the Democratic presidential nominee 
Silicon Valley royalty like the investors 
Financiers like the bankers 
Entertainment titans like 
Other business executives like 
You may have heard that Tuesday is
It’s another big week for corporate earnings, with a quarter of S&P 500 companies opening their books. Noteworthy reports include 
On Thursday, economists expect the 
The 
There are any number of ways to predict election results, from polls to betting markets. Some look to 
The ratio of Postal Realty Trust to CoreCivic charts the relative fortunes of these stocks: The higher it goes, the more bullish property investors are about post offices over private prisons. This measure has more than doubled this year, a sign that portfolios might be preparing for a Biden win — although it has come down a bit in recent days.
In June, the U.S. Department of Labor proposed a rule that would require company pension funds to invest solely based on financial returns and not environmental, social or governance (E.S.G.) goals. The proposal attracted more than 1,000 comments and six petitions, most of them critical of a change that would affect some $10 trillion in pension assets. The department 
Pfizer and Mylan agreed to sell assets to win F.T.C. approval for their deal to combine Pfizer’s off-patent division with Mylan. (
Stonepeak Infrastructure Partners agreed to buy the cable company Astound from TPG for $8 billion, including debt. (
Nestlé agreed to buy control of the meal delivery service Freshly at a $950 million valuation. (
How Christine Lagarde is doing as president of the European Central Bank, a year into her tenure. (
Most of the telecom industry is opposed to the Pentagon’s proposal to create a national 5G network — except for Dish Network. (
A second federal judge has blocked President Trump’s effort to ban TikTok. (
Google urged its workers not to “get distracted” by the government’s antitrust lawsuit. (
Airlines are giving away seats in deals to entice fliers. (
Finance and tech workers open up about why they’re leaving New York. (
How half of Slovakia took coronavirus tests in a single day. (
We’d like your feedback! Please email thoughts and suggestions to 