
transcript
He thinks he killed one of us. He hasn’t gone — look how many more Suleimani we have.
Ayatollah Ali Khamenei wept and offered prayers over the coffin of Maj. Gen. Qassim Suleimani at the funeral in Tehran on Monday, as throngs of people filled the city’s streets to mourn. 
Ayatollah Khamenei had a close relationship with the general, who was widely considered to be the second most powerful man in Iran. 
The military commander was hailed as a martyr, and his successor swore revenge during the funeral ceremony, while chants of “Death to America” rang out from the crowds in the capital. 
State-run news outlets reported that 
transcript
From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.”
Today: In the streets of Tehran, Iranians are mourning the loss of General Qassim Suleimani. My colleague Farnaz Fassihi on what they feel they’ve lost.
It’s Tuesday, January 7.
[CHANTING]
Monday morning was the start of the official state funeral for General Qassim Suleimani.
[SINGING]
By 8:00 a.m., there were millions of people out in downtown Tehran. He was being celebrated as a national hero, but also as a religious martyr and a saint.
[SINGING AND DRUMMING]
There were families. There were men, women, children. They had the symbolic Shia ritual symbols out — feathers, swords, drums, music, eulogies, songs.
[CHANTING]
And the crowd also had a very anti-American and defiant mood. People were sad, but they were also very angry, and we heard a lot of “revenge, revenge,” and “no more negotiations with the U.S., it’s time for battle,” chanted by the crowd.
[SPEAKING]
Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, recited the Muslim prayer of the dead on General Suleimani’s coffin.
[SPEAKING]
In the middle of the prayer, several times he paused and openly cried.
[SPEAKING] [CROWD MOANING]
And the crowd also wept very loudly with him. As a reporter who’s covered Iran for over 25 years, what struck me was that the people who had attended were not just supporters of the regime, but a lot of people who were generally very critical of the regime.
Hmm.
To be clear, there are plenty of Iranians who did not love or respect General Suleimani. But there were activists, there were opposition figures who had been jailed by the regime who attended. And when I asked them, why are you there? Why are you going? The response was, General Suleimani protected our national security. He transcended politics. He was a national hero. And I was talking to some young people who had attended his funeral, and I spoke to a 22-year-old young man, a university student, and I asked him, why are you at the funeral? And he said, knowing General Suleimani was out there made me feel safer. He was like a security umbrella above our country. And that’s a sentiment that I heard over and over.
You know, what you’re describing feels like the kind of unified national outpouring that is reserved for a small handful of figures in any country, right? I mean, a beloved president, a civil rights leader like Martin Luther King in the United States, not for what our colleagues have described as a general who specializes in covert operations in Iran.
I think it’s difficult for most people in the United States and outside of Iran, and perhaps the region, to grasp the unique place and role that General Suleimani played in Iran and in regional politics. He was singlehandedly the most revered and influential character in Iran.
So how did Suleimani cultivate that role? How did he make Iranians feel that way? Where does that story start?
In many ways, General Suleimani’s story begins with the story of Iran’s revolution in 1979.
He was a young man working construction jobs in the small city of Kerman in the southwest, from a low-income family.
Mm-hmm.
His education was high school diploma level, and he got swept up in the revolution, in the promise of Islam becoming the foundation of a government, and of promises to empower the oppressed and low-income class in Iran, which had been neglected and sidelined under the pro-Western monarchy of the shah. So General Suleimani gets a job at the local water plant and volunteers for the local chapter of the Revolutionary Guards, and quickly rises up and shows a lot of promise as a military man. When the war with Iraq happened in the 1980s, he was a commander for eight years. And after the war ended, he was named the commander of the Quds Forces. And that was really the beginning of the Quds Forces, and the Islamic Republic’s ambition to create a paramilitary in the region, and to kind of export the idea of an Islamic revolution of Shia dominance outside of the borders of Iran.
And why does Iran, and someone like Suleimani, want to export this revolution?
The Islamic Republic theocracy was the first time that a Shia government had come to power in the Middle East. The Islamic faith is divided along Sunnis and Shias, and the division and rivalry go back all the way to the early days of Islam and the succession of Prophet Muhammad. And Shias have always been a minority in the faith. With Saudi Arabia sort of as the custodian of the Sunni faith, Iran has, for centuries, wanted to establish itself as the protector of the minority Shias. And the theocracy of the Islamic Republic gave them the foundation and the structure to do that. And as soon as they had established their government in power in the country, they started looking externally. And General Suleimani was pivotal in expanding the ambitions of Iran’s military and political apparatus in the Middle East.
And how exactly does he do that?
So General Suleimani was instrumental in elevating Iran’s strategy in the region through the proxy militia groups that it had created. And he started in Lebanon, where Iran had already created two Shia militia groups, Amal al-Islami and Hezbollah, and he helped them in their fight with Israeli soldiers that were occupying Lebanon, and later on in the battles that Hezbollah and Lebanon fought. General Suleimani also becomes very involved with Palestinian militant groups — Hamas, Islamic Jihad — who also see an alliance between their ideologies and Islamic Republic of Iran.
And when you say that Suleimani becomes involved in these groups, what does that actually mean? What is he doing?
He helps them come up with battlefield plans, and he dispatches his underlings to go and train and fund and form these groups, providing them with weapons, providing them with money, and providing them with strategy. And he gains this reputation of being the shadow commander, the man who’s everywhere but nowhere. If General Suleimani is present on the ground, then Iran is present.
So under Suleimani, Iran is making itself felt across the Middle East through these relationships to these militias. Does that strategy succeed?
Iran’s strategy succeeds, but it’s limited to the shores of the Mediterranean with Lebanon and the Palestinian territories. But that changes in 2003 with the United States invasion of Iraq.
We’ll be right back.
U.S. warships and planes launched the opening salvo of Operation Iraqi Freedom. The attack came in waves —
So Farnaz, how exactly did the U.S. invasion of Iraq provide an opportunity for Suleimani and for this strategy that he’s pursuing for Iran?
Until the U.S. invasion of Iraq, the country was ruled by Saddam Hussein and Sunnis, and Shias who were aligned to Iran were marginalized. When the United States toppled Saddam Hussein, Shias rose to power, and many of these Shia leaders and political and religious figures had very close ties to Iran. And Iran really seized that opportunity. It used these contacts and networks and relationships to gain influence and penetrate Iraqi society. And General Suleimani once again becomes the pivotal character in helping realize this strategy and this aspiration.
So an unintended consequence of America invading Iraq is that it ends up empowering Iran.
When I was living and working in Iraq in those early days after the invasion, most of the Sunni Iraqis that we would meet and interview would say that the U.S. invasion delivered Iraq on a golden platter to Iran.
Wow. So what does Suleimani do with this opening that he sees in Iraq?
General Suleimani uses the opening to further expand Iran’s influence in Iraq and in the region. He helps create Shia militia. He recruits allies, a network of politicians, religious men and militant groups who were loyal to Iran’s ambitions in Iraq. The Shia militia that he helped create were also responsible for attacks on U.S. soldiers, for the killing of U.S. soldiers, and for civilian deaths.
When the Civil War started in Syria in 2011, Iran vowed to keep President Bashar al-Assad in power. Mr. Assad and his constituents are an offshoot of Shia Islam, and religiously and politically aligned with Iran. This is where Iraq comes in. Because of the relationships and networks and influence that General Suleimani had in Iraq, he was able to use Iraq by land and by air to funnel support for Syria’s war. Weapons, missiles, even soldiers that were trained in Iran were shipped to Syria by way of Iraq.
So Suleimani’s strategy in Iraq — it doesn’t just fend off the Americans who have invaded there. It means that Iran and Suleimani could use Iraq to assist allies like Assad in Syria and in all these other battles throughout the region.
Exactly. Iraq becomes a geographic extension of Iran and its interests in the region. And by the time ISIS takes over parts of Syria in Idlib and parts of Iraq in Mosul, the Iraqi government and even the Americans were at wit’s end on what to do to battle this growing threat of ISIS.
So what does the rise of ISIS mean for Iran, and what does that mean for Iranian influence and for Suleimani’s role?
The rise of ISIS was a threat to Iran. It was an existential threat to the Shia government of Iran, because ISIS represented the most extreme version of Sunni faith. And again, General Suleimani mobilizes. He goes to Iraq and he repeats a true and proven formula once again by recruiting volunteers, the instrumental ground force in helping the United States and Iraq’s army to battle ISIS. Therefore, Mr. Suleimani, although he’s seen as a foe of the United States, in the battle of ISIS actually becomes a default ally. For General Suleimani, the rise of ISIS was a turning point. He went from being a commander in the shadows, a mystery figure, to being a household name.
Hmm. And why is he suddenly a public figure because of ISIS?
Because Iran wanted to counter ISIS’s propaganda machinery.
ISIS is using its cash and media-savvy Western militants to recruit and radicalize.
The branded content. They’re mixing graphics, moving images, music, chants, all the —
— cataloging and posting in near real time their war crimes.
They utilize social media and Twitter and Facebook to recruit, to spread their propaganda to target their messaging.
And this is a “mujatweet,” a short, promotional video which shows a softer side of jihad. Here, a Belgian hands out ice cream to excited Syrian children.
And they create a personality around their leader, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, the same way that Al Qaeda had created a personality around Bin Laden. So in response to ISIS’s very successful propaganda campaign, Iran decides to turn General Suleimani into the public face of the so-called resistance, and somebody that Shias could love and emulate and respect.
Enter Qassim Suleimani.
Here he is, celebrating gun in hand.
His pictures began appearing in public in battlegrounds, videos of him visiting soldiers unannounced.
He’s been up and down the country in the North, in the South, in the capital, checking up on the defenses, mobilizing the Shia militias, making sure that the Iraqi states are able to confront the threat from ISIS.
Videos of him reciting poetry, saying that he wants to become a martyr, the highest honor in Islam, and join his friends.
General Suleimani is increasingly being elevated and recognized as a key player on the world stage as Iranian influence in the region grows.
So by 2014, Mr. Suleimani is so well-known that his pictures are being printed on T-shirts, and his posters are sold in shops in Damascus and Beirut and Tehran.
Wow.
And that summer, his mother passed away, and the funeral of his mother in Tehran became the who’s who event of every militant group in the Middle East. From the head of Hamas, to Islamic Jihad, to senior members of Hezbollah, all showed up to pay respects to the general that they saw as the patron of their cause and movement.
Hmm. So this is vivid evidence that he is very much the source of power in the Middle East — that all these groups owe him. They’re literally showing up at his door.
It was like watching a king hold court. And that was really the first public glimpse that we got of his status regionally, and what he means to these groups.
So at this point in 2014, how is Suleimani viewed by the U.S.? I’m struck that all of these figures and groups that you’re describing as turning out to pay respects to Suleimani’s mother at this funeral, they are all pretty much mortal foes of the U.S.
So the U.S. was watching him, but not really taking action. And that was really in line with the previous administration’s policies of engagement with Iran, and not escalating confrontation. That changed with the election of Donald Trump as president.
Right, and the withdrawal from the Iran nuclear deal that President Trump ordered.
Yes. Since the withdrawal of the Iran nuclear deal by the U.S., Iran and the U.S. have been on a collision path, increasingly taking provocative actions and policies toward one another.
The past 48 hours saw a dangerous escalation in the feud between Washington and Tehran.
Culminating these past few weeks of violence in Iraq —
An American contractor was killed on an Iraqi base.
The Department of Defense took offensive actions by launching F-15 Strike Eagles against five targets.
Protesters stormed the American Embassy, and the U.S. says Iran is responsible.
— that ultimately led to the decision by President Trump to assassinate General Suleimani.
Right. Because in the minds of U.S. officials, Suleimani is very much responsible for those actions.
Exactly.
And Farnaz, how much do you think that the very public role that Suleimani occupied, and that Iran created for him and wanted for him — how much do you think that that played a role in the Trump administration’s decision to take him out, the understanding of what it was he represented to Iran?
I think the Trump administration may have not known what he represented to Iran.
Hmm.
I think that they miscalculated the level of admiration, perhaps, or nationalistic sentiment that we’ve seen pouring out of Iran. I think the White House probably thought that it was taking out a military commander, that it may not be very popular with ordinary Iranians, that there’s been a lot of discontent in November against the government, and maybe Iranians would support this decision. For sure, we have voices in Iran, outside and inside Iran, among Iranians, who think that taking Mr. Suleimani out is justified, and they didn’t like him, but what we’ve seen is that the U.S. has effectively turned General Suleimani into a martyr.
So this response that we saw at the funeral on Monday — are you saying that the United States may not have expected this? Because it sounds like the U.S. understood one aspect of Suleimani’s role in Iran, as the leader of this military strategy, but perhaps they didn’t understand something that’s equally as important, which is what he meant in the hearts of Iranians.
I think that’s absolutely right. And I think, you know, we have to remember Iran has been an island of stability in a region ablaze with terrorism and car bombs and beheadings and kidnappings and women being sold by ISIS. And Iranians have, like, watched the whole region unravel around them — refugees and displacement — for the past 20 years. And by and large, they credit General Suleimani for that. They say that they trusted him and respected him for protecting Iran, for keeping Iran safe. And I think the outpouring of emotion we see is related to that sentiment.
Help me understand this idea, because the strategy that you have described over the past decade of violence and provocation that Suleimani oversaw and he came to personify, it doesn’t feel protective. Why did it feel that way to Iranians in a way that the U.S. might not have understood?
You know, Michael, that’s a really good question, and it’s one that I’ve struggled to understand myself. This is a man who was responsible for a lot of violence and a lot of mayhem in the region, and a lot of activity that most Iranians may not agree with, that do not like. But because they felt that it gave them a buffer between their day-to-day lives inside Iran and the instability and violence happening all around the Middle East, they came to respect him and view him as a protector.
What does Suleimani’s meaning to people in Iran — what does that mean for the response we should expect from the government there?
The public momentum is building, and pressure is building, on Iran’s leadership to take action. At the funeral this morning, millions of people were out.
[CHANTING]
They were carrying the red flag of Shia Islam, which is a call to battle. They were chanting, “No to negotiations, no to a deal, only war with the United States.”
[CHANTING]
And the combination of the public’s defiant mood and calls for revenge, and the rhetoric we’re seeing from Iranian officials, increases the possibility that in the next few days or next few weeks, Iran will respond and retaliate. How it will do it, what it will do, we don’t know.
Farnaz, thank you very much.
Thank you so much for having me, Michael.
The Times reports that Iran’s supreme leader has told advisors that the retaliation against the United States for General Suleimani’s death should be carried out openly by Iran’s military, not through proxies or militias. Such a direct reprisal would be a major departure from Iranian tradition, and highlights the desire by the supreme leader to honor Suleimani’s status and satisfy the mourners who have flooded the streets of Tehran.
We’ll be right back.
Here’s what else you need to know today. In a surprise statement on Monday, former National Security Adviser John Bolton, said he is willing to testify at President Trump’s impeachment trial if he is subpoenaed by the Senate. The announcement puts new pressure on Senate Republicans to call witnesses at the trial, something they have so far resisted doing. Bolton was blocked by the White House from testifying before House impeachment investigators, but is considered a vital witness in the case, because he has direct knowledge of Trump’s actions and conversations regarding Ukraine. And in Los Angeles on Monday, prosecutors charged Harvey Weinstein with sex crimes just hours after prosecutors in New York began a trial against Weinstein on similar charges. The allegations in Los Angeles are from two women who allege that Weinstein sexually assaulted them in hotel rooms in 2013. The latest charges mean that even if Weinstein is acquitted in New York, he will face a second trial in California.
That’s it for “The Daily.” I’m Michael Barbaro. See you tomorrow.
“God the almighty has promised to get his revenge, and God is the main avenger,” said Esmail Ghaani, the Iranian general who will succeed General Suleimani as head of the Quds Force, the foreign expeditionary arm of the elite Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps. “Certainly actions will be taken,” he added.
General Suleimani’s killing has 
Mr. Khamenei has told advisers that any retaliation against American interests must be direct, proportional and 
Zeinab Suleimani, General Suleimani’s daughter, said at the funeral that the United States and Israel faced a “dark day.”
“You crazy Trump, the symbol of ignorance, the slave of Zionists, don’t think that the killing of my father will finish everything,” she said. 
The general’s funeral was attended by a broad swath of Iranians, including reformers who oppose the government of President Hassan Rouhani but who perceived the killing as an attack on all of Iran. 
“I felt like he was our safety umbrella spread above Iran,” said Amir Ali, 22, a university student, of General Suleimani. “I felt safe knowing he was out there.”
An official letter from the Defense Department informing Iraq that American troops were “repositioning forces” for “movement out of Iraq” produced headlines around the world that an American withdrawal had begun.
But the letter, drafted by the United States military command in Baghdad, 
“It was an honest mistake,” General Milley told reporters at the Pentagon. “That letter is a draft, it was a mistake, it was unsigned, it should not have been released.”
“There’s been no decision made to leave Iraq, period,” Mr. Esper said. “There is no decision to leave, nor did we issue any plans to leave.”
But because the Iraqi Parliament voted on Sunday that American troops should leave the country, General Milley said, military officials have begun making arrangements for a withdrawal in the event that a decision is made to pull out.
He said the military was “moving forces around” to consolidate their positions and that, not only were they not withdrawing, but at the moment more forces were arriving from Kuwait.
The Iraqi government has begun to consider new parameters for the American military in Iraq after lawmakers voted 170-0 on Sunday in favor of 
The troops will be limited to “training and advising” Iraqi forces, but will not be allowed to move off their bases or to fly in Iraqi airspace while plans are being made for their departure, said Brig. Gen. Abdul Karim Khalaf, the military spokesman for Prime Minister Adel Abdul Mahdi.
The vote on Sunday was not final and many lawmakers did not attend the session. But Mr. Mahdi drafted the language and submitted the bill to Parliament, leaving little doubt about his support for the expulsion.
Mr. Mahdi met with Matthew Tueller, the American ambassador to Iraq, on Monday, and “stressed the need for joint action to implement the withdrawal,” according to a statement and photo released by Mr. Mahdi’s office. He also emphasized Iraq’s efforts to prevent the current tensions between Iran and the United States from sliding into “open war.”
Mr. Mahdi also made clear that Iraq wanted good relations with “all countries” but that Iraq wanted those relationships to be based on “mutual respect, and preserving its security, stability and national sovereignty.”
The drone strike that killed General Suleimani on Friday also killed Abu Mahdi al-Muhandis, the deputy head of the Popular Mobilization Forces, a coalition of Iranian-backed militias in Iraq.
The attack was viewed by many in Iraq as a violation of the nation’s sovereignty, and the Foreign Ministry said on Sunday that it had summoned the American ambassador. Iran reacted to Sunday’s vote with congratulatory messages. 
But the Iraqi Parliament was divided over the demands from angry citizens to expel American troops. Nearly half of its members, primarily Kurds and Sunnis, did not attend Sunday’s session and did not vote. In his speech to lawmakers, Mr. Mahdi laid out two possibilities: to either quickly end the presence of foreign forces in Iraq, or to set a timeline for their expulsion.
The measure approved by Parliament did not include a timeline, and only instructed the government to end the presence of foreign forces in Iraq. Officials said no decision had been made about whether any American troops would be able to stay, or under what conditions. 
By Monday, there was still no timetable for the troops’ departure and no specifics about whether all American forces would be asked to leave or only some. And while Mr. Mahdi’s rhetoric was tough in his speech to the Iraqi Parliament on Sunday, by late in the evening, after speaking with President Emmanuel Macron of France by phone, his language was more modulated.
In a post on Twitter describing their phone call, Mr. Mahdi suggested that he was leaving the door open to something less than a complete departure.
He said he had agreed with Mr. Macron to “continue to discuss this delicate issue.” 
He added that they talked about “the withdrawal of the foreign forces from Iraq in a way that would not damage the battle against ISIS and would preserve the sovereignty of Iraq and keep its relationships with the countries of the international coalition” that is fighting the Islamic State in Iraq.
Those goals would be difficult to achieve without some continued presence by the United States, because other countries’ troops are unlikely to stay in the absence of American military support.
Hostility and competition for influence had grown for years between the two regional rivals, but in recent months, Iran and Saudi Arabia had taken steps toward indirect talks to defuse the situation.
In an address to the Iraqi Parliament on Sunday, Prime Minister Adel Abdul Mahdi of Iraq said that he was supposed to meet with General Suleimani on the morning he was killed.
“It was expected that he was carrying a message for me from the Iranian side responding to the Saudi message that we had sent to the Iranian side to reach agreements and breakthroughs important for the situation in Iraq and the region,” Mr. Mahdi said.
The content of the messages was not immediately clear, but Mr. Mahdi’s comments suggested that the drone strike ordered by Mr. Trump may have interrupted a diplomatic back channel aimed at averting conflict between Iran and Saudi Arabia. 
Saudi officials did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Mr. Esper acknowledged that 
“We will follow the laws of armed conflict,” the defense secretary said at a news briefing at the Pentagon on Monday when asked if cultural sites would be targeted, as the president had suggested over the weekend. When a reporter asked if that meant “no” because the laws of war prohibit targeting cultural sites, Mr. Esper agreed. “That’s the laws of armed conflict.”
The furor over the threat to Iranian antiquities was a classic controversy of Mr. Trump’s own creation, the apparent result of an impulsive threat and his refusal to back down in the face of criticism. While Mr. Trump declared on Saturday that the United States had identified 52 potential targets in Iran, none of them qualified as cultural sites, according to an administration official who asked not to be identified correcting the president.
Audrey Azoulay, the director-general of Unesco, met with the Iranian ambassador to the organization on Monday to discuss the current situation, and issued a statement pointing to
“Ms. Azoulay stressed the universality of cultural and natural heritage as vectors of peace and dialogue between peoples, which the international community has a duty to protect and preserve for future generations,” Unesco said in the statement. 
Iran’s president, Hassan Rouhani, and foreign minister, Mohammad Javad Zarif, were once seen as relative moderates. 
Mr. Rouhani, for example, once advocated diplomacy and integration with the West. Mr. Zarif was the Iranian most closely associated with the negotiation of 
But on Monday, each offered a fiery response to the United States in light of General Suleimani’s killing.
“What the US has accomplished in its terrorist assassination of anti-ISIS heroes is to unleash global anti-US fury and a worldwide rancor — on a scale not seen in recent memory,” Mr. Zarif 
Mr. Rouhani said in a 
The comparison suggested that if Mr. Trump planned to attack 52 targets, one for each American hostage held by Iran in the American embassy from 1979 to 1980, Iran had an even larger number of victims to commemorate.
“Never threaten the Iranian nation,” Mr. Rouhani said.
Two top Senate Democrats urged Mr. Trump early Monday to declassify the document that the administration sent to Congress formally giving notice of the airstrike that killed General Suleimani. It is unusual for an administration to classify the entirety of such a notification, and Democrats upbraided the document as insufficient. The notification to Congress is required by law.
In a joint statement, Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, and Senator Robert Menendez of New Jersey, the top Democrat on the Foreign Relations Committee, said it was “critical that national security matters of such import be shared with the American people in a timely manner.”
“An entirely classified notification is simply not appropriate in a democratic society, and there appears to be no legitimate justification for classifying this notification,” they said.
The House is expected to vote later this week on a resolution invoking the War Powers Act that would curtail the president’s ability to authorize a strike against Iran without Congress’s approval. The Senate could vote on similar legislation as soon as mid-January.
“He was designated a terrorist by President Obama and then Obama did nothing about it except give them $150 billion,” Mr. Trump said Monday during a phone interview on Rush Limbaugh’s radio program, referring to Iranian money that was unfrozen as part of the nuclear agreement that President Barack Obama’s administration brokered in 2015.
“The Obama administration was just letting them get away with murder — in the true sense, murder,” Mr. Trump continued.
He did not spare his Republican predecessor either, holding him responsible for not targeting General Suleimani during his administration. “President Bush should have taken him out,” Mr. Trump added. “He’s responsible for the” roadside bombs that killed many American troops during the height of the Iraq War.
The general’s killing has won Mr. Trump 
Saudi Arabia is scrambling to ease tensions in the Middle East amid fears that Iran could retaliate for the killing of General Suleimani with strikes against Riyadh and other American allies in the region. 
Saudi Arabia’s powerful crown prince and de facto ruler, Mohammed bin Salman, sent his younger brother, Deputy Defense Minister Khalid bin Salman, to Washington, where on Monday he 
“We are very keen that the situation in the region doesn’t escalate any further,” the Saudi foreign minister, Prince Faisal bin Farhan, told reporters in Riyadh on Monday. “It’s certainly a very dangerous moment, and we have to be conscious of the risks and dangers, not just to the region but to wider global security, and therefore we hope that all actors take all the steps necessary to prevent any further escalation and any provocation.”
While the Saudi leadership considers Iran its staunchest regional enemy, 
The United States Embassy in Riyadh this week warned Americans in the kingdom of “the heightened risk of missile and drone attacks,” adding that Americans working near military bases and oil facilities were “at heightened risk of attack.”
The Iranian government said it would no longer abide by a commitment it made under a 2015 nuclear deal that limited its enrichment of uranium.
The decision to lift all restrictions on the production of nuclear fuel spelled the effective end of the nuclear deal, experts said, though Iran left open the possibility that it would return to the limits if sanctions were lifted.
“It’s finished. If there’s no limitation on production, then there is no deal,” said David Albright, president of the Institute for Science and International Security, a nonprofit in Washington.
The announcement came after the Iranian Supreme National Security Council held an emergency meeting on Sunday after General Suleimani’s assassination.
“The Islamic Republic of Iran will end its final limitations in the nuclear deal, meaning the limitation in the number of centrifuges,” the government said in a statement. “Therefore Iran’s nuclear program will have no limitations in production including enrichment capacity and percentage and number of enriched uranium and research and expansion.”
The announcement followed several steps by Iran to move
None except the United States have left the agreement, which was a key foreign policy achievement of former Mr. Obama. Since that renunciation, the Trump administration has imposed severe sanctions aimed at crippling Iran’s economy.
The nuclear agreement ended some economic sanctions on Iran in return for its verifiable pledge to use nuclear power peacefully. 
Iran’s statement on Sunday did not include details about its enrichment ambitions. And the country did not say that it was expelling the inspectors who monitor its nuclear program. 
Mr. Trump seemed to respond to the announcement on Monday with an all-caps post on Twitter:
A senior adviser to Mr. Trump on Monday said that the president held open the possibility of renegotiating a nuclear deal with Iran.
“He said he’s open to meet if Iran wants to start behaving like a normal country,” Kellyanne Conway, Mr. Trump’s White House counselor, told reporters.
The European parties to the deal, including Britain, France and Germany, as well as China and Russia, also signatories to the deal, had struggled to preserve the agreement as tensions between the United States and Iran worsened.
Geng Shuang, a spokesman for the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said at a daily news briefing that there was still hope for the nuclear deal. He noted that Tehran had said it would continue to cooperate with the International Atomic Energy Agency, which monitors Iranian activities under the agreement, and that it could return to the pact under the right conditions.
“We believe that although Iran has been compelled to reduce adherence owing to external factors, it has also demonstrated restraint,” Mr. Geng said.
In a 
The statement followed Iran’s announcement that day that it would no longer abide by the limits to uranium enrichment set out in the deal, a move that seemed to finally kill off the agreement after months during which Tehran had carefully breached less significant limits.
Mr. Trump 
The European statement seemed somewhat forlorn, since its efforts to preserve the deal have been weak, hamstrung in part by a desire to maintain good relations with Washington. The statement did not support the drone strike on the Iranian general but did acknowledge American concerns, saying that, “we have condemned the recent attacks’’ on coalition forces in Iraq and “are gravely concerned by the negative role played by Iran in the region.’’
The statement called for “de-escalation” of tensions from all parties and reaffirmed the Europeans’ determination “to continuing the fight against Islamic State, which remains a priority.’’ And it called on Iraq “to continue to supply the necessary support to the coalition’’ — in other words, to not expel American and NATO troops. 
The secretary general of NATO, Jens Stoltenberg, called an emergency meeting of the alliance’s advisers on Monday afternoon. During a news conference following the meeting Mr. Stoltenberg said NATO would be suspending training operations on the ground in Iraq. 
“At our meeting today, Allies expressed their strong support for the fight against ISIS and for the NATO mission in Iraq,” he said. “In everything that we do, the safety of our personnel is paramount. As such, we have temporarily suspended our training on the ground.”
Josep Borrell Fontelles, the European Union foreign policy chief, 
Peter Stano, his spokesman, said during a news briefing in Brussels said that de-escalation was the goal.
“It’s in our interest as Europeans to maintain this agreement,” Mr. Stano said. 
On Monday, Heiko Maas, the German foreign minister, said that the Europeans would talk to Iran and planned to come up with a coordinated response.
“This could be the first step toward the end of this agreement, which would be a great loss,” Mr. Maas told a German radio station. “And so we will weigh things up very, very responsibly.”
Russian officials have been sharply critical of the targeted killing in Iraq but have not otherwise intimated how the Kremlin might respond, or whether Moscow, which has longstanding ties with Tehran, might play a mediating role.
President Vladimir V. Putin invited Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to visit Moscow on Saturday to discuss the strike, among other issues, the Kremlin announced.
Oil prices 
The price of Brent oil, the international benchmark, jumped above $70 in futures trading as markets digested a 
The sudden escalation in tensions in a region that supplies much of the world’s petroleum has roiled oil markets. The West Texas Intermediate, the American oil benchmark, rose 1.9 percent to $64.22 a barrel in futures trading.
Analysts at Capital Economics have warned that the price of oil could spike to $150 a barrel if the bellicose rhetoric between the two countries turned into action.
“The price of oil would soar in the event of full-blown military conflict in the Middle East,” said Alexander Kozul-Wright, a commodities economist at Capital Economics.
Prime Minister Boris Johnson of Britain, 
In the first foreign policy crisis of the post-Brexit era, London is caught between its traditional alliance with Washington — one that Mr. Johnson wants to deepen further with a trade agreement — and the new relationship with Europe.
In his first statement on Mr. Trump’s decision to strike the general, Mr. Johnson took pains to emphasize the threat posed by the Iranian military leader and said, “We will not lament his death.” But Mr. Johnson also called on all sides to avoid aggravating the situation, echoing the language used by the French and German governments.
Mr. Johnson suggested he wanted to play a mediating role and noted that he had spoken to Mr. Trump, as well as to Mr. Macron of France and Ms. Merkel of Germany. The European governments have been more circumspect in their reactions to the American strike, with the Germans criticizing Mr. Trump’s threat to impose sanctions on Iraq if Baghdad were to expel American troops from bases in the country.
Mr. Johnson was said to be upset that Mr. Trump had not notified him of the strike in advance, but he can ill afford a falling out with the president, given Britain’s need to initiate trade talks with Washington
The United States Embassy in Israel said in 
“Out of an abundance of caution, the Embassy strongly encourages U.S. citizens to remain vigilant and take appropriate steps to increase their security awareness, as security incidents, including rocket fire, often take place without warning,” the embassy said.
The embassy said people should keep a low profile, be aware of their surroundings and monitor local media, among other suggestions. 
António Guterres, the secretary general of the United Nations, said in a statement on Monday that “Geopolitical tensions are at their highest level this century.”
“Even nuclear nonproliferation can no longer be taken for granted,” he said. “This caldron of tensions is leading more and more countries to take unpredicted decisions with unpredictable consequences and a profound risk of miscalculation.”
A United States government website 
It was not immediately clear if the attack on the website of the Federal Depository Library Program had come from Iran. But the intrusion was consistent with the work of low-level
A security analysis by United States officials found that “none of the site’s data was compromised.”
James A. Lewis, a former government official and cybersecurity expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, said hackers probably targeted the first agency they could find “that had weak security.”
He said the hack was probably not conducted by Iran’s more sophisticated team but instead recalled a “low-budget hack of the sort Iran’s ‘patriot hackers’ are known for, including the cheesy imagery.”
Bigger agencies have better defenses and are likely to be safe, Mr. Lewis said.
Reporting was contributed by Alissa J. Rubin, Ben Hubbard, Russell Goldman, Alexandra Stevenson, Farnaz Fassihi, Christopher Buckley, Megan Specia, Steven Erlanger, Melissa Eddy, Mark Landler, Helene Cooper, Thomas Gibbons-Neff, Eric Schmitt, Vivian Yee, David D. Kirkpatrick, Catie Edmondson, Andrew Kramer, Edward Wong, Mihir Zaveri, Peter Baker, Maggie Haberman and Eileen Sullivan.