
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering 
France thought it had beaten the coronavirus. But a roaring second wave has left French leaders 
The French president, Emmanuel Macron, on Wednesday announced a curfew for Paris and eight other major cities. The pressure on intensive care beds was intolerable, he said, adding, “Our caregivers are exhausted.”
If the virus was ever under control in France, that was before the summer. But experts say that after that period, the French, 
The weekly number of new cases in Europe is now at its highest point since the start of the pandemic, rising to seven million from six million in 10 days, according to the regional director of the World Health Organization’s Europe office, Hans Kluge. The number of daily deaths has passed 1,000 for the first time in months, he said.
Here are our 
In other developments:
London will join other big cities in Europe, including Paris and Berlin, in 
The U.S. has passed a total of 
Eleven members of the Swiss Guard have 
In an easy metaphor for a divided country, President Trump and former Vice President Joe Biden held individual, concurrent town hall meetings on separate networks instead of their scheduled virtual debate.
While Mr. Biden adopted a conciliatory tone, continuing to answer voters’ questions after the forum had ended, Mr. Trump was often on the offensive, sometimes sparring with his moderator or taking a more combative approach.
Here’s 
Mr. Trump seemed to confirm a recent Times report that he has $400 million in outstanding debts. He called the sum “a tiny percentage of my net worth” and insisted none of it was owed to Russia.
Mr. Biden committed to giving an answer before the election about whether he would expand the number of Supreme Court justices, though he declined to indicate what that number might be.
The candidates differed on the topic of masks, with Mr. Biden brandishing his own while Mr. Trump suggested — largely inaccurately — that scientists were divided about their worth.
Trump refused to denounce the QAnon conspiracy theory, instead saying: “I do know they are very much against pedophilia. They fight it very hard.”
Prime Minister Boris Johnson of Britain has reached a moment of truth on two critical issues: the pandemic and Brexit negotiations with the European Union. But he is still 
In the past weeks, Mr. Johnson has imposed localized restrictions in an attempt to avoid the two-week nationwide lockdown pushed by the opposition Labour Party 
For Mr. Johnson, 
Burkina Faso once looked like a success story for American military aid in Africa — an oasis of peace and stability in the turbulent Sahel.
But despite a plethora of U.S. counterterrorism and security assistance programs, the country is now 
“Security forces have proven more capable of killing civilians than protecting them,” says our reporter Nick Turse.
The pandemic this year has given many of us an enormous appreciation for the preciousness of life. I’ve come to realize that I’d like to be 
However, I have been very troubled by the lack of usefulness among so many of my cohort.
I challenge pre-retirees and retirees to ask: How do I try and see and feel the world from the perspective of those far younger than me? That is an important activity in our new longevity. That we spend time and energy not to just try to hoard our life and our memories, but that we also actively try to be empathetic to different people, younger people.
The importance of interdependence alongside independence — we all would do better in our later years if we’re connected and not isolated. And how do I maximize my health span, not just my life span?
And there’s the serious issue of funding our longer lives. A third of the boomers have close to nothing saved for retirement and no pensions; that is a massive poverty phenomenon about to happen, unless millions of people work a bit longer, spend less, downsize or even share their homes with housemates or family.
Far too many think far too small. I have asked thousands of people from all walks of life over the years who are nearing retirement what they hope to do in retirement. They tell me: “I want to get some rest, exercise some more, visit with my family, go on a great vacation, read some great books.” Then most stall. Few have taken the time or effort to study the countless possibilities that await them or imagine or explore all of the incredible ways they can spend the next period of their lives.
That’s it for today’s briefing. See you next week.
— Natasha