
For years, Gildo Negri visited schools to share his stories about blowing up bridges and cutting electrical wires to sabotage Nazis and fascists during World War II. In January, the 89-year-old made another visit, leaving his nursing home outside Milan to help students plant trees in honor of Italians deported to concentration camps.
But at the end of February, as Europe’s first outbreak of the 
The virus, which is so lethal to the old, has hastened the departure of these last witnesses and forced the cancellation of anniversary commemorations that offered a last chance to tell their stories to large audiences. It has also created an opportunity for rising political forces who seek to recast the history of the last century in order to play a greater role in remaking the present one.
Throughout 
The Alternative for Germany is looking to capitalize on the economic frustration the coronavirus crisis has triggered. In France, the hard-right National Rally had the country’s strongest showing in the last European Parliament elections. And in Italy, the birthplace of fascism, the descendants of post-fascist parties have grown popular as the stigma around Mussolini and strongman politics has faded.
KEY DATA OF THE DAY
The United States reported 21,614 new infections on Thursday, and while that number is below its April peak, the daily average has been rising slightly in recent days as the continued improvement in Northeast is offset by new outbreaks in the South and parts of the West.
The uptick appears to represent a combination of increased testing, the coronavirus taking hold in more regions and outbreaks in localized hot spots. It comes during a convergence of two developments that health officials are watching warily: states and cities pressing ahead with plans to allow more businesses to reopen, and masses of people gathering around the country in large-scale protests against police brutality and racism.
More states have seen an increase in new virus cases over the past two weeks than have seen a decline, according to
Nationwide the number of deaths recorded each day has fallen to less half of what it was at the peak, but the daily toll still averaged 938 a day over the past week. All told there have been 108,813 known deaths in the United States, more than any other nation in the world.
There are continuing signs that the geography of the outbreak is shifting.
The hardest hit state in the nation, 
The death toll in
Speaking to the employees of a production facility that manufactures swabs for Covid-19 test, President Trump continued a war of words with the state’s Democratic governor, Janet Mills.
“You have a governor that won’t let you open up,” Mr. Trump said Friday during a speech at Puritan Medical Products. “I might as well say it while I’m up here: You better get the state open, Governor.”
Ms. Mills had told the president earlier in the week that his planned trip to the medical swab factory north of Bangor “may cause security problems.” Mr. Trump responded by dismissing her caution and saying he was even more determined to go.
During his speech, Mr. Trump suggested Maine was missing out on crucial tourism dollars
“This is your time, this is your big month, this is your Christmas,” Mr. Trump said. “How can you be closed?”
Earlier in the day, Mr. Trump had applied similar pressure to all of the nation’s governors in a speech in the Rose Garden, telling Americans to “do social distancing, and you wear masks if you want.” He equated the pandemic to a “hurricane” that “goes away, and within two hours, everyone is rebuilding and fixing and cleaning and cutting their grass.”
The president was not subtle in his desire to move on from lingering questions about the pandemic. “Even you,” Mr. Trump said to reporters assembled there, “I notice you’re starting to get much closer together, looks much better, not all the way there yet but you’ll be there soon.” The White House Correspondents’ Association said later that White House officials violated federal social distancing guidelines by moving chairs in the Rose Garden closer together before the event.
“The health of the press corps should not be put in jeopardy because the White House wants reporters to be a prop for a ‘news conference’ where the president refused to answer any questions,” said Jonathan Karl of ABC News, the president of the White House Correspondents’ Association.
China has warned its citizens against traveling to Australia because of what it describes as rampant racial discrimination and violence in the country in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak.
The move was mostly symbolic, given that most foreign nationals are barred from traveling to Australia and that tourism has plummeted across the world because of the pandemic. It follows a series of economic punishments by China against Australia, after Australian officials led a call for an independent investigation into the spread of the coronavirus, which first emerged in the Chinese city of Wuhan.
In its 
Attacks against people of Asian descent have risen sharply across the world during the pandemic as xenophobia spreads. Asian Australians say they have endured harsh verbal harassment as well as physical attacks, including being spit on and coughed upon.
Relations between Australia and China have worsened significantly in recent weeks, as Australian officials have pushed China to allow an investigation into the virus. In response, China suspended some Australian beef imports and raised tariffs on Australian barley. China has denied that its decisions were politically motivated.
The travel warning on Friday stirred patriotic feelings in China, with many people criticizing racism in Australia.
“Don’t go, don’t go,” a Chinese internet user wrote on Weibo, a popular social media site. “The motherland is the safest place.”
While the early response of the French government could be faulted for some sluggishness and a shortage of masks, and more than 29,000 people died, the country has fared better than many in the pandemic, especially when compared with the United States, Italy, Spain and especially Britain.
On Friday the head of the government’s scientific council, the immunologist Jean-François Delfraissy, declared France’s epidemic “under control” in an interview on French radio. Many experts credit the government’s tightly enforced lockdown, mobilization of technology like high-speed trains to save patients, and closely followed counsel from scientists.
Just don’t tell that to the French, who resent President Emmanuel Macron more than ever.
As they celebrated their provisional release from lockdown this week with the much-anticipated partial reopening of cafes and restaurants, the coronavirus has only reinforced the paradox of the president’s uneasy relationship with his own citizens.
On average, over half of Europe’s citizens outside of France — even in countries with far worse records — view their government’s virus response favorably. In France, 66 percent have an unfavorable view, according to a recent Figaro poll.
In some ways, Mr. Macron is his own worst enemy, with a style that can come off as imperious. His speeches during the crisis were lengthy and literary, both trademarks. He reproached the French for lacking “a sense of responsibilities,” then later praised them for their discipline.
Asked recently on French television about his unpopularity, Mr. Macron stiffened and looked impatient.
“Look, I don’t sit around feeling sorry for myself,” he said. “I’m looking ahead.’’
U.S. Roundup
In New York City, concerns are growing that mainly peaceful protests are exposing many people to the possibility of infection, as many police officers and protesters, who are often in close quarters, were not wearing face coverings. Mayor Bill de Blasio emphasized on Friday that officers are supposed to be wearing face coverings.
“It has not been happening consistently,” Mr. de Blasio said on WNYC radio, adding that he was frustrated and had asked his police commissioner “multiple times” to address the laxness. “It has to be fixed.”
The mayor reiterated that the city was set to 
In New York, 
In California, several new economic sectors will be allowed to reopen beginning June 12 including restaurants, gyms, museums and day camps. The state’s public health department released 
Gov. Tim Walz of Minnesota signed an executive order Friday easing restrictions on bars and restaurants, gyms, entertainment venues and salons beginning Wednesday. As a condition for reopening, 
Coronavirus cases at two correctional facilities and an ICE detention center in 
In Michigan hair and nail salons will be allowed to reopen in June 15, under an 
In Louisiana, where 
As airlines try to convince Americans to fly again, they have touted their policies for keeping passengers safe, including the requirement that everyone onboard a plane wear a mask.
But travelers on recent flights said the rules are not being enforced. And flight attendants said they have been told not to confront passengers who opt to not follow them.
“Airlines have said follow the guidelines, but don’t enforce them, don’t tackle people to the ground and don’t turn flights around if they don’t listen,” said Sara Nelson, president of the Association of Flight Attendants union. “That gets around to the public then it’s, ‘I don’t have to do this. There are no consequences if I don’t do this.’ That, too, can lead to conflict, not just with the flight attendants, but with other passengers, who get angry and all of a sudden we have to break up a fight.”
On social media and in emails to The Times, travelers described facing scenarios of having to choose between confronting fellow passengers about wearing masks and possibly encountering hostility, or sitting on a flight for hours potentially being exposed to the coronavirus.
After 
“If you’re traveling right now, be prepared to advocate for yourself,” she wrote, adding that, “United did not follow their own social distancing guidelines,” and many travelers were not wearing masks.
On Friday, President Trump 
Public health experts in the United States reacted to Mr. Trump’s announcement with alarm.
“We helped create the W.H.O.,” Dr. Thomas Frieden, the former director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 
“Turning our back on the W.H.O. makes us and the world less safe,” Dr. Friedan said.
Experts argued that global cooperation would be crucial to containing the virus, as it did six years ago during the Ebola outbreak that was raging through West Africa.
At the time, President Barack Obama sent 3,000 American troops to the region to help with the response on the ground. And Samantha Power, former ambassador to the U.N., convened the U.N. Security Council for its first ever meeting over a public health crisis and helped pass a resolution declaring the outbreak a “threat to international peace and security” — a step that led to an infusion of funds and resources for the response effort.
“Like so many 21st-century challenges, Ebola was not a zero-sum fight in which some countries could ‘win’ by pursuing their interests in a vacuum,” Ms. Power wrote in her book “The Education of an Idealist.”
The Times’s Alisha Haridasani Gupta spoke to Ms. Power about what the W.H.O. would look like without the United States.
The federal government’s 
In 
The Times has been tracking outbreaks in all types of 
For example, the federal account of the 
Though nursing homes were allowed to report infections dating back to January, the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services only required data on cases from May onward, after the virus had already peaked in the United States.
Seema Verma, the administrator of the C.M.S., said her agency was not able to require nursing homes to report infections and deaths from prior months, but that many nursing home operators had chosen to do so.
“We are prohibited to do retroactive rule-making, and so we couldn’t require them to do so, but we feel pretty comfortable that that’s what they’ve done,” Ms. Verma said.
The line started small about two months ago with a handful of people who had recently been laid off. But now, nearly three months into the economic crisis, it stretches 50 or 60 people long throughout the day and down almost an entire Manhattan block.
They are all waiting to access the same thing: 
The state provides benefits through direct deposit or on KeyBank debit cards. KeyBank has higher one-time withdrawal limits than other banks and doesn’t charge a fee, making it a better option for many unemployed.
“It’s terrible,” said Mandy Zaxanz, who spent 45 minutes traveling from her Brooklyn home to the A.T.M. It took her more than two-and-a-half hours to reach the machine.
Ms. Zaxanz, who lost her job at a Manhattan hotel in March, said she needed money to pay rent and buy food.
KeyBank officials said they would step up efforts, including stationing employees outside the branch to let people know that they can withdraw money at other banks. But state officials criticized the bank for not doing more sooner.
As Ms. Zaxanz waited, she prayed the A.T.M. would not run out of money, as it had when she tried to use it last week. It also ran out on Wednesday afternoon, which led to furious people punching nearby windows.
So far this year, more than 2.5 million unemployment claims have been filed in the state. About 500,000 people in the state receive their benefits on a KeyBank card.
Global Roundup
transcript
On the outskirts of Mexico City, an 84-year-old man struggles to breathe. Paramedics hoist him into a capsule for safe transport. This neighborhood is a hotspot for coronavirus. At the hospital, the patient’s wife is forced to wait outside. Just the day before, she says she lost a son to Covid-19. Like most Covid deaths, his body was supposed to go straight to a crematorium. Only, there’s a wait. Crematoriums are backed up, sometimes for days. The government has consistently underestimated the death toll here. But handlers of the dead offer evidence that the region is becoming an epicenter for the pandemic. And it’s getting worse. This is Nezahualcóyotl, one of Mexico City’s most densely populated suburbs. During the months of lockdown, many people here couldn’t afford to stay home and not work, or just didn’t want to. And the virus is hitting hard. The wait for cremation is so long some families rent temporary interments, like these. Funeral services barely keep up with demand. Uriel Bizuet maintains death records of all his clients. These death records can tell us a lot about the virus’s spread, and suggest Covid-19 has been more deadly than the government admits. For instance, this death on March 5 by acute lung failure, a hallmark symptom of coronavirus, occurred 13 days before Mexico announced the country’s first Covid death. Bizuet wonders if the epidemic arrived earlier than the government said. In March, the cause of death could have been influenza — without a test, it’s impossible to know. To date, there are more than 11,000 confirmed coronavirus deaths in Mexico. But the true toll is likely much higher. Mario Romero Zavala is a data analyst and software engineer in Mexico City. He recently analyzed death certificates for the city, and found the excess mortality — that is the number of deaths above the historical average — showed 8,000 additional deaths in April and May. “Given our study, we can’t say that all the excess mortality is directly attributed to Covid. But there’s a huge difference — we’re seeing like a four times difference between what’s the official data for confirmed Covid cases of deceased persons in Mexico City versus the excess mortality in Mexico City. The people are given the message that somehow we’re past the epidemic, and this is not true. This is absolutely not true, and it’s a very concerning message to be given out.” Publicly, health authorities keep saying, ‘We’ve made it through the worst.’ This was Mexico’s deputy health minister a month ago. Now medical experts believe that the worst may be just beginning. Health analysts at the University of Washington project the epidemic could kill as many as 45,000 people in Mexico by the end of summer. This week Mexico’s president, Andrés Manuel López Obrador, began easing restrictions to get the country back to work. Amid these mixed messages, conspiracy theories have caught fire. Doctors told Miguel Angel Gil his father died of Covid-19, but he refuses to believe it. There’s no evidence to support such rumors, and they complicate efforts to fight the epidemic. Gil says he slipped money to a funeral worker for a visitation with his father’s body. Government protocols for handling Covid cases prohibit that kind of contact, and advise that all corpses be immediately cremated. But many families find ways around them as they aren’t enforceable. Juana Parada Flores, an indigenous Mazahua, says she’s following the rules, and hires a funeral service to transport her father’s body from the morgue to a crematorium, or so she claims. Ms. Parada asks us not to follow her. But I learned later that she did not cremate the body after all. Like the family who paid extra for a funeral, she instead drove her father’s coffin two hours outside the city and held a traditional burial service for the community. A Reuters videographer captured dozens of people attending. This is the sort of potential super-spreader event that health authorities want to avoid. As Mexico reopens, the president’s message is that even if danger still exists, the worst has passed. But the effect may be the opposite: that the worst is yet to come.
But many Mexicans, including medical experts, fear even the country’s gradual reopening is coming too early, and will lead to more illness and death under a pandemic that has not been brought under control in Mexico and 
Dr. Francisco Moreno, who heads the Covid unit of ABC Medical Center, one of Mexico City’s top private hospitals, said that despite doubling capacity, patients were having to be turned away.
The government’s message may lead many people to think the worst is over, he said, but “we are at the peak of the epidemic.”
President Andrés Manuel López Obrador has struggled to balance a pandemic response with the economic needs of a country in which over half of the 
Early on, he 
But the relaxation of restrictions comes at a moment when the disease appears to be peaking. On Wednesday, Mexico reported 
The head of 
Prime Minister Scott Morrison of 
In 
President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of 
Roulette wheels spun. One-armed bandits coughed out payouts. Customers erupted in cheers at hot blackjack tables. But at Las Vegas’s famed casinos, which reopened for business on Thursday after a 78-day shutdown, it was anything but business as usual.
Showgirls in the gambling capital of the world strutted their stuff wearing face masks. Hotel guests had their temperatures taken at check-in. Plexiglass partitions separated dealers from players, and dice were doused in sanitizer between throws.
A huge neon sign on the Aria Resort and Casino summed up Sin City’s new ethos: “Think dirty thoughts but keep your hands clean.”
Under new social distancing guidelines, casinos across Nevada have cut their capacity in half. State regulators are not requiring guests to wear masks but some of the larger casino operators, including MGM Resorts International and Wynn Resorts, have mandated them in certain circumstances.
“We are seeing enthusiastic and excited guests who appreciate all the visible changes that were made to the property to keep them safe,” said Debra DeShong, a spokeswoman for MGM. “We’ve kept our occupancy low for opening weekend so that we can do this slowly and safely. But what is clear is that the demand is there.”
Faced with plunging sales that have already led to tens of millions of layoffs, companies are trying to renegotiate their office and retail leases — and in some cases refusing to pay — in hopes of lowering their overhead and surviving the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression during the coronavirus pandemic. This has given rise to fierce negotiations with building owners, who are trying to hold the line on rents for fear that rising vacancies and falling revenue could threaten their own survival.
Simon Property Group, the biggest mall operator in the United States, this week sued Gap, the owner of retail chains that include Old Navy and Banana Republic, for nearly $66 million in unpaid rent for April, May and June, according to a lawsuit filed in Delaware this week.
In many cases, the strongest tenants — those most able to pay — are driving the hardest for a discount. They include brand-name companies like LVMH, the luxury goods conglomerate that owns Sephora and other outlets; and Starbucks, which had $2.6 billion of cash on hand at the end of March and would have little problem selling stock or bonds to raise more money.
Beyond the immediate impact of business closings on tenants’ revenue are larger questions, including the already-dire trends for malls and shopping centers, how office and consumer behavior might change after the pandemic, and the effects of recent looting and vandalism on retail corridors. Will companies need more space so that employees can spread out, or will they need less because they need fewer offices at all?
New research suggests that by September, 
Teachers and parents are worried about how much children are losing out, 
In Aurora, Colo., Clint Silva, a seventh-grade social studies teacher, was planning to spend the spring working with his students on research skills. For one remote assignment, he asked them to create a primary source about the pandemic that future historians could consult.
But only a minority of his students have consistently engaged with remote assignments. “We know this isn’t a good way to teach,” he said.
The impact of the learning loss students have experienced is being assessed by researchers using past learning disruptions — such as natural disasters or even summer break — and comparisons of the usage of online learning software in schools before the pandemic and now from home.
Students could begin the next school year having lost as much as a third of their expected progress from the previous year in reading and half of their expected progress in math, according to 
When all of the impacts are taken into account, the average student could fall seven months behind academically, while black and Hispanic students could experience even greater learning losses, equivalent to 10 months for black children and nine months for Latinos, according to 
ECONOMIC Round up
The job market unexpectedly reversed its pandemic-induced free fall in May as employers added 2.5 million jobs. But tens of millions of people remain out of work, and the unemployment rate, which fell to 13.3 percent from 14.7 percent in April, remains higher than in any previous postwar recession.
The improvement came as government relief checks helped consumers and companies, and President Trump took a victory lap on Twitter and declared during an event at the White House that the jobs report signaled “the greatest comeback in American history.” He signed a bill to give small businesses more time to use loans from the Paycheck Protection Program to help them stay afloat during the pandemic.
But the trillions of dollars in government assistance that have helped keep the economy on life support 
Here is a look at the economic news driving the day.
There are millions of 
Prospects on 
Many businesses are still reeling
The N.B.A. players’ union is discussing a first-of-its-kind reboot, a plan that the league’s owners overwhelmingly approved on Thursday.
The league has been hopeful that the National Basketball Players Association will approve the plan, which calls for 22 of the league’s 30 teams to live and play from July to mid-October in one carefully maintained safety bubble: Walt Disney World Resort near Orlando.
Marc Stein, a Times sports reporter, and Brooks Barnes, who covers the entertainment industry for The Times, 
They also report on the scale of the financial pressure on the N.B.A. The league faces what The Athletic recently estimated would be a revenue loss approaching $1 billion if it fails to provide playoff games to its primary television partners, Disney and Turner Sports.
In October, a tweet by Houston Rockets General Manager Daryl Morey in support of pro-democracy demonstrators in Hong Kong did damage in “the hundreds of millions of dollars” to the N.B.A.’s business relationships in China, according to Mr. Silver’s estimate in February. And the far more lucrative revenue stream from ticket purchases and other in-arena fan expenditures is unavailable indefinitely.
The N.B.A. has said it is working with infectious disease specialists, public health experts and government officials to establish safety guidelines to minimize the chances that the coronavirus can infiltrate its “campus” at the Florida resort. Negotiations with the players’ union on the depths of the restrictions are underway, and will not be publicly revealed until next week at the earliest.
The epidemic in Britain has killed 
On Friday, the two sides announced that they had made little headway in their efforts to strike a post-Brexit trade deal. With a deadline at the end of the year, and the last chance to ask for an extension looming at the end of this month, Mr. Johnson’s government argues that it would rather walk away without a deal than prolong the talks.
That may be posturing. Britain now says it wants to step up the pace of negotiations next month. But the pandemic has scrambled the government’s calculations, and a no-deal outcome, which once seemed both disastrous and all but impossible, now seems entirely plausible.
On the European side, the trade talks have fallen down the list of priorities, dwarfed by the need to respond to the pandemic. And the disruptions to the global economy has led some to question whether an agreement with Europe still makes sense for Britain.
Mujtaba Rahman, a former European Commission economist now at the political risk consulting firm, Eurasia Group, said, “The economy after the crisis is going to look fundamentally different than before the crisis, and the government wants a freer hand in reshaping that economy.”
And with Mr. Johnson under fire for his chaotic handling of the virus, the compromises he would have to make with Brussels might be too great for his embattled government.
Long after most nations urged their citizens to wear masks, and after months of hand-wringing about the quality of the evidence available, the World Health Organization on Friday endorsed the use of face masks by the public to reduce transmission of the virus.
Since the beginning of the pandemic the W.H.O. had refused to endorse masks. The announcement was long overdue, critics said, as masks are an easy and inexpensive preventive measure.
Even in its latest guidance, the W.H.O. made its reluctance abundantly clear, saying the usefulness of face masks is “not yet supported by high quality or direct scientific evidence,” but that governments should encourage mask wearing because of “a growing compendium of observational evidence.”
The W.H.O. also provided an exhaustive list of the potential disadvantages of wearing a mask, including “difficulty with communicating clearly” and “potential discomfort.”
Earlier this week, a study funded by the W.H.O. concluded that respirator masks such as N95s are 
But, to the disappointment of some health care experts, the W.H.O. did not budge from its previous recommendations for medical workers, saying that respirator masks are only needed if such workers are involved in procedures that generate virus-laden aerosols — droplets smaller than 5 microns.
Pandemic lockdowns have given nature a breather around the world, bringing animals to unexpected places. Cougars toured the deserted streets of Santiago, the Chilean capital. Wild boars have strolled through the lanes of Haifa, Israel. Fish catches off Vietnam are teeming again.
In Thailand, Khao Yai National Park, the country’s oldest, has been closed to human visitors for the first time since it opened in 1962. The upshot? Its 300 or so elephants have been able to roam freely, venturing onto paths once packed with humans.
With few cars around, the elephants, the park’s dominant species, stroll along roads, chomping on foliage without needing to retreat to dangerous corners of the forest where cliffs meet waterfalls. Rarely spotted animals, like the Asian black bear or the gaur, the world’s largest bovine, have emerged, too.
“The park has been able to restore itself,” said Chananya Kanchanasaka, a national park department veterinarian. “We are excited to see the animals are coming out.”
The reprieve is notable in part because Thailand is a country where the bond with nature has long been framed as one of domination — as the jungle consuming people or vice versa.
Beyond the pillaging of its own rainforests, Thailand is a key way station on global wildlife trafficking routes, with horns, tusks and scales from as far away as Africa making their way to China.
Reporting was contributed by Jo Becker, Hannah Beech, Ben Casselman, Stephen Castle, Michael Cooper, Ellen Gabler,