
Siba, a black standard poodle with a meticulously groomed coat and a taste for chicken, won best in show at the 144th Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show on Tuesday night, defeating a final group of contenders that included a wildly popular golden retriever and two repeat best in show contestants.
Siba is the fifth standard poodle to win the show’s top prize and the first since 1991. The last poodle to take top honors was a miniature, Surrey Spice Girl, in 2002.
“She knows she’s special,” Siba’s handler, Chrystal Murray, had said when she advanced to best in show on Monday. The best in show judge, Robert H. Slay, tuning out the cheers of a crowd chanting the name of Daniel the golden retriever as he contemplated his decision, agreed.
Murray said she liked poodles because they do not shed and are thus hypoallergenic. And despite her prim and elegant appearance, Siba, she said, was just a family dog who “knows when to tone it down and sleep on the couch,” one who enjoys playing with Murray’s toddler son and tracking in mud from the fields near their Pennsylvania home.
Siba has only one regular requirement: she prefers chicken. On Monday, when Murray couldn’t find any before the judging in the nonsporting group, she turned to the closest available option: chicken sandwiches from a nearby McDonald’s. Siba gobbled them up, and then had the same meal for dinner on Tuesday.
The only thing fancy about her, it seems, is her haircut and her full name: GCHP CH Stone Run Afternoon Tea.
Two of the finalists, Bono the Havanese and Wilma the boxer, had won their groups to advance to best in show for the second year in a row. But both came up short again.
Vinny, the wire fox terrier, was hoping to deliver a second straight title — and a record 16th over all — for his breed. He may have been hurt by recent history: a wire fox terrier had won last year, drawing groans from a terrier-weary crowd.
Bourbon, a sleek whippet seeking his breed’s first title since 1964, won Monday’s runner-up prize, reserve best in show.
After winning the top prize, Siba and Murray posed in the middle of the arena for photos. As Murray answered questions, Siba reclined on the small raised platform in the middle, surrounded by her trophies and ribbons, as regal (and coiffed) as Cleopatra and completely unperturbed by the fuss around her. Photographers tried to get her to look at them by shouting her name, but it did not work. The champion was relaxing.
“She always knows when she’s won,” Murray said.
Whether he wins the silverware is up to the judge, Mr. Slay, but Daniel the golden retriever seems to have the people in his corner tonight.
The whippet and the Havanese are the only challengers in the popularity contest. But that, of course, means nothing in best in show.
Sean Ernst, a Times editor, writes from the office:
“Do the group winners from last night have the advantage going into best in show? Or do tonight’s group winners have the edge?” He call its “the classic rest-vs.-rust debate.”
Sarah?
You know who does sound ready? The best in show judge, Robert H. Slay. He’s been sequestered, and has no idea who he will see on the floor in a few minutes. No worry for him, he says.
“I’ve been in this five decades, I’ve watched a lot of dogs,” he says in a North Carolina drawl. “I think I’m ready.”
He knows 
Vinny, a wire fox terrier, wins the terrier group and there’s a bit of grumbling from the Garden crowd. (The same thing happened when a wire fox terrier won best in show last year.) As I noted earlier, that’s mostly terrier fatigue, but the miniature bull terrier and the skye terrier definitely had more fans here tonight.
Vinny will have a quick turnaround before best in show. Time for a quick drink and a comb but no snacks — “he’s had plenty of snacks tonight,” his handler deadpans — and then it’s right back to work.
The terrier group, the last of the seven groups, is on the floor now. There are 32 kinds of terriers, including three versions of bull terriers and two fox terriers.
It’s like cheering for Alabama in football.
As promised, Sarah spills on the dog names she made up:
All the names were real, except the Axolotl, which is the name of an amphibious salamander; and the Pufi, the Platte der Otz, the Pom Pom d’Or, the Hund des baumes, and the Dogue de Cabernet, which I made up.
Her handler expresses supreme confidence that she can win the whole thing. She was among the smallest competitors in a group filled with enormous dogs but, like any good boxer, punched well above her weight.
Wilma, like Bono the Havanese, who qualified on Monday night, won her group for the second year in a row. Each knows there is still work to do.
It’s tough to overstate how big some of these dogs are: the Great Dane, the mastiffs, all of them.
Check back after the working group for answers.
This could also be known as the heavyweight division: Bernese mountain dogs, bullmastiffs, Newfoundlands and St. Bernards.
It’s hot under the lights on the Garden floor for these dogs, and several have taken their first opportunity to lie down. A few have been covered with cooling towels.
The crowd is going wild here. Beating the odds, and the history: the golden retriever has won best in the sporting group! It’s a Cinderella story!
“Holy crap!” her handler exclaims on live television.
Could this be the year a golden finally wins it all?
The Irish water spaniel, looking a bit nervous, has been sent away by the judge!
The handler seemed crushed, and got some comforting taps from the other handlers on her way out. But that’s like making it to the Super Bowl and then getting thrown out by the ref two minutes into the game.
New York City has been Dog City the last few days. More than 2,600 dogs have competed/are competing in the competition, representing 49 states — every state except North Dakota, where they apparently have more important things to worry about — and 19 countries other than the United States.
Who do you like so far? The spaniel? The other spaniel? Or the other 
Hold on … there’s trouble.
With 33 dogs in the sporting group, there’s quite a bit of down time for the handlers and their sometimes bored charges. The Brittany went first, but now has about a half hour to kill. The wirehaired Vizsla, on the other hand, will go last.
We’re underway at the Garden with the request: “Can we have the sporting group on the floor!”
Jan Hoffman of The Times peeked behind the curtain at the dog show and discovered a veritable medical army has sprung up to tend to the competitors’ needs: health and wellness specialists, canine acupuncturists, massage therapists and chiropractors and veterinarians.
“Westminster is famous as a gathering of spectacular dogs, with all the people and products attendant with canine beauty pageantry: sprays, mousses, gels, conditioners, curlers, straighteners, bows, hair implants (I’m looking at you, 
“But in the last few years, Westminster has added competitions in agility and obedience, events that bring in a very different crowd — jock dogs and their humans. (‘Vanish is not just some Barbie collie,’ Aaron Kirzner said of his border collie, which is both a breed and agility champion.)”
Read the rest of Jan’s piece 
King, a wire fox terrier, won best in show honors in 2019, but not everyone was thrilled. “
There are show favorites and crowd favorites, and those are not always the same breeds. Golden retrievers and Labradors, for example, are two of the most popular dog breeds in the United States, and they are crowd favorites at the Garden year after year, but neither has ever won best in show at Westminster.
“If you had a popularity contest, we would win,” Christine Miele, the Eastern vice president of the Golden Retriever Club of America, 
On Monday night, the loudest cheers were often reserved for the fluffiest, the hairiest and the 
One dog to watch on Tuesday night is Bono, the Havanese who won the toy group, and the closest thing the show has to a celebrity dog. Bono was a best in show finalist last year, and has returned to the final seven.
It’s not uncommon for a dog to make a repeat appearance in the final group; an excellent example of his breed, after all, doesn’t change much once he has matured.
A silky 3-year-old Havanese named after the U2 singer, Bono was the top-ranked show dog in the country last year but finished second to King, the wire fox terrier, at Westminster and to Thor, a bulldog, at the National Dog Show on Thanksgiving.
This time, his handler said Monday, he has come to win.
“He has something that makes people look at him,” the handler, Taffe McFadden, said after Bono advanced. “He just stares ’em down.”
Dog shows are basically elimination competitions. The best dogs from each breed first compete against one another to select one best in breed winner. Those best in breed winners advance to seven group competitions: hound, toy, sporting, nonsporting, herding, working and terrier.
The seven best in group winners advance to one final judging competition for best in show. Bono, the Havanese who won the toy group, and Siba, the standard poodle who captured the nonsporting group, advanced Monday, and were joined in the best in show ring by the hound winner Bourbon, who is trying to become the first whippet to win since 1964, and Conrad, the Shetland sheepdog who was bouncing-in-the-air excited after winning the herding group.
The sporting, working and terrier group winners will be chosen Tuesday night.
The Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show is the dog show circuit’s big night in New York, when the great and the good — and even a few celebrities — strut into Madison Square Garden in their finest furs, with their hair styled just so, all of them ready to see and be seen.
Humans will be there, too, of course.
But Tuesday night is all about the dogs. It’s when a field of more than 2,600 entries is trimmed to seven finalists, and then to just one, who is awarded an immense ribbon and a silver cup into which — depending on the breed — he may or may not fit.