
Saudi Arabia on Wednesday announced that the kingdom and its allies would observe a unilateral cease-fire in the war in Yemen starting at noon on Thursday, a move that could pave the way for ending the brutal five-year-old conflict.
Saudi officials said that the cease-fire was intended
The gesture is the first by any government entangled in an international armed conflict to halt hostilities at least in part because of the pandemic. The secretary general of the United Nations,
As many as 150 members of the Saudi royal family are believed to have contracted the coronavirus, including members of the family’s lesser branches, according to a person close to the family.
The senior Saudi who is the governor of Riyadh, Prince Faisal bin Bandar bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, is in intensive care with Covid-19, according to two doctors with ties to the King Faisal hospital and two others close to the royal family. Prince Faisal is a nephew of King Salman.
King Salman, 84, has secluded himself in an island palace near the city of Jeddah on the Red Sea. His son, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, the 34-year old de facto ruler, has retreated with many of his ministers to the remote site on the same coast.
While Yemen is one of the few countries in the world yet to have a confirmed case of Covid-19, aid workers fear that an outbreak there would be devastating.
The cease-fire would include Saudi Arabia’s Arab allies and the internationally recognized Yemeni government, which was effectively toppled in 2014 when a rebel group aligned with Iran and known as the Houthis took over much of the country’s northwest and its capital, Sana.
transcript
The focus of all political parties should be to save their people. Please don’t politicize this virus. It exploits the differences you have at the national level. If you want to be exploited, and if you want to have many more body bags, then you do it. If you don’t want many more body bags, then you refrain from politicizing it. No need to use Covid to score political points. No need. You have many other ways to prove yourselves. This is not the one to use for politics. The United States and China should come together and fight this dangerous enemy. They should come together to fight it. We’re close to every nation, we’re colorblind we’re — what do you call it — wealth-blind. We don’t see — for us, rich and poor is the same. For us, weak and strong is the same, for us small and big is the same.
Replying to criticism from President Trump, the head of the World Health Organization made an impassioned plea for solidarity on Wednesday, warning that politicizing the coronavirus pandemic would result in “many more body bags.”
Mr. Trump 
Asked about Mr. Trump’s comments on Wednesday, 
“Please don’t politicize this virus,” Dr. Tedros said. “If you want to be exploited and you want to have many more body bags, then you do it. If you don’t want many more body bags, then you refrain from politicizing it.”
He emphasized that the disease was new, adding, “there are many unknowns and we don’t know how it will behave in future.”
While some critics have called on Dr. Tedros to resign, he said he was not deterred and could withstand “three years” or “three hundred years” of personal attacks. He did not cite Mr. Trump by name.
He said for the first time that for months he has been targeted by racist comments and death threats.
In Japan, the deputy prime minister and finance minister, Taro Aso, recently noted that some people referred to the W.H.O. as the “Chinese Health Organization” because of what he called its close ties to Beijing.
Taiwan officials say the W.H.O. ignored their early warnings about the virus because China refuses to allow Taiwan, a self-governing island that Beijing claims as its territory, to become a member.
The agency’s defenders say that its powers over any individual government are limited.
In a statement on Wednesday, the United Nations secretary general, António Guterres, called the W.H.O. “absolutely critical” to vanquishing the virus. 
“Once we have finally turned the page on this epidemic, there must be a time to look back fully to understand how such a disease emerged and spread its devastation so quickly across the globe, and how all those involved reacted to the crisis,” Mr. Guterres said. 
In just a few months, more than two dozen companies have announced promising vaccine programs aimed at ending the pandemic, speeding through the early stages of testing unlike ever before.
On Wednesday, Novavax, a Maryland-based biotech company, said its vaccine candidate had stimulated a powerful immune response in lab and animal experiments, producing antibodies that could fight off the coronavirus. The vaccine, called NVX-CoV2373, is set to begin human trials in Australia in mid-May. A final product that would be widely available is still a year or more away.
A vaccine made by the biotech company Moderna is 
The health care giant Johnson & Johnson expects to start clinical trials in September, and has received a nearly $500 million partnership via a division of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. And experimental vaccines developed by researchers at the University of Pittsburgh and Baylor College of Medicine are also waiting for permission from the Food and Drug Administration to begin testing in people.
There is no proven treatment or vaccine yet against Covid-19, the illness caused by the coronavirus. A vaccine would be the 
“We’re all trying to do something which we have almost no precedents for, which is accelerating a vaccine in the middle of a pandemic,” said Dr. Peter Hotez, who is a co-director of the Texas Children’s Hospital Center for Vaccine Development at Baylor College of Medicine.
As the 
But the Chinese city of Wuhan, where the coronavirus pandemic started, 
Wuhan’s reversal is a powerful symbolic victory for China that will be closely watched by the rest of the world, even as the contagion continues to spread elsewhere — including in the United States, which is 
With most of Europe, India, the United States and many other places under orders for businesses to close and most people to stay home, economies have been crippled and millions of people thrown out of work.
In Europe, where the 
The virus has infected more than 133,649,100 people and has been detected in nearly every country.
But virologists and public health officials say that easing restrictions too swiftly could produce the catastrophic scenario that the lockdowns have so far kept at bay.
Elsewhere, the numbers have yet to peak. As Britain waited for updates on the condition of Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who spent a second night in the 
transcript
Can I first give an update on the condition of the prime minister. I know a lot of people be concerned about that. I can tell you he’s receiving the very best care from the excellent medical team at St. Thomas’s Hospital. He remained stable overnight. He’s receiving standard oxygen treatment, and breathing without any assistance. He’s not required any mechanical ventilation or non-invasive respiratory support. He remains in good spirits, and in keeping with usual clinical practice, his progress continues to be monitored closely in critical care. I think it’s probably worth just remembering that as will be the case for many people up and down the country who know someone at work who’s fallen ill with the coronavirus, it comes as a shock to all of us. He’s not just the prime minister for all of us in cabinet. He’s not just our boss. He’s also a colleague, and he’s also our friend. So all of our thoughts and prayers are with the prime minister at this time with Carrie and with his whole family. And I’m confident he’ll pull through because if there’s one thing I know about this prime minister, he’s a fighter and he’ll be back at the helm leading us through this crisis in short order. Of course, for us in cabinet we know exactly what he wants from us, and what he expects from us right now. And following the cabinet discussion today, I can reassure the prime minister. And we can reassure the public that his team will not blink. And we will not flinch from the task at hand at this crucial moment. We’ll keep all of our focus and all of our resolve with calm determination on delivering the government’s plan to defeat the coronavirus.
Prime Minister Boris Johnson of Britain is stable and “responding to treatment” for the coronavirus, but remains in intensive care, a spokesman said on Wednesday.
Mr. Johnson was 
Downing Street declined on Wednesday to comment on what treatment Mr. Johnson was receiving, though it repeated previous statements that he is breathing without assistance apart from receiving oxygen.
The office said he was in good spirits but made clear that 
Mr. Raab is already serving as chairman of a key committee on the pandemic, as the government works to control the epidemic and stabilize an economy hit hard by the 
The government is expected next week to review measures that have closed down much of the economy, though there are no signs as yet of an imminent easing.
The Nightingale, the emergency hospital that was built in less than two weeks at a London conference center, received its first patients on Tuesday, a spokesperson said on Wednesday. It will be able to provide ventilation treatment to more than 2,800 patients.
A marathon overnight teleconference of European finance ministers broke off Wednesday without agreement on eurozone measures to counter the 
The 16-hour meeting was meant to produce recommendations for collective action by the 19 European Union nations that use the euro, in addition to policies enacted by individual countries. While there was broad support for some ideas, like a $109 billion fund for unemployment benefits, others proved more contentious.
Italy and Spain, the worst-hit countries, want the group to issue joint debt, 
The European Union’s top scientist quit after failing to persuade his superiors to create a major scientific program to confront the virus. Colleagues said 
Dr. Mauro Ferrari, who became president of the European Research Council in January, resigned on Tuesday in a letter to Ursula von der Leyen, the European Commission president. 
“I have been extremely disappointed by the European response to Covid-19,” he said in a 
Dr. Ferrari said he began to press for a special virus program in early March, but it was barred by the bloc’s rules. He said he worked with Ms. von der Leyen on an alternative, but it was apparently blocked by the commission’s bureaucracy.
On Wednesday, the Research Council rejected Dr. Ferrari’s version of events, saying he had been forced out in part because he spent half his time in the United States and missed important meetings.
With more than one million people worldwide ill from the coronavirus, there is an urgent search for any drug that might help.
While there is no proof that any drug can yet cure or prevent a coronavirus infection,
Here are some key facts on hydroxychloroquine:
A 
Still, many hospitals are giving hydroxychloroquine to patients infected with the coronavirus because there is no proven treatment, and they hope it will help. Clinical trials with control groups have begun across the world. 
Overall, hydroxychloroquine is considered relatively safe for people who do not have underlying illnesses that the drug is known to worsen. But like every drug, 
For at least one passenger, a trip on a cruise ship seemed like a way to avoid the pandemic. Now, though, nearly 60 percent of the people aboard have tested positive for the coronavirus.
The Greg Mortimer, an Australian ship off the coast of Uruguay, has been at sea since March 15, when it departed for Antarctica and South Georgia with 217 people onboard.
“We thought somewhat naïvely that a boat going into isolation for three weeks was probably a safe place to be,” Brian Meier, 55, one of the six Americans on the ship, said on Wednesday. “We were hoping to be coming back in three weeks when everything would be calming down.”
He said each passenger’s temperature was taken before they boarded the vessel, and the cruise line warned that the boat would turn around if a passenger developed a fever. But on Tuesday, 
Mr. Meier, who has tested positive for the virus, said the cruise company decided to divert the ship to the Falkland Islands on the fourth day of the three-week cruise. When news spread that there was someone with a fever onboard, all passengers were confined to their cabins, he said, and everyone was tested. On Tuesday the results came back: 128 were positive.
“I’m doing fine with no symptoms other than 16 days of cabin fever,” Mr. Meier said. “The bigger challenge is just having this open-ended situation, not sure what our future really is. It’s out of our control.”
In the United States, which counted its highest virus-related 
Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont announced on Wednesday that he 
And in a grim signal of the crisis faced by the nation, New York State now has more confirmed cases than either hard-hit Spain or Italy, and has more cases than any single country in the world outside of the United States.
In Washington, Democratic leaders said on Wednesday 
The request could slow what the White House and Republican congressional leaders said they hoped would be quick passage by week’s end of an interim relief package to supplement the $2 trillion stimulus law enacted last month.
Stocks in the U.S. 
Across the United States, the death toll
Social scientists are exploring a theory that may partly explain why the pandemic has proved 
In those countries, large numbers of working-age people live with their parents, and the younger people may be bringing the virus home and spreading it to their far more vulnerable, elderly parents.
Far from universally accepted, this hypothesis has become the subject of fierce debate, after the publication of a 
Some economists have challenged the rigor and validity of that analysis, and the argument is unfolding just as armchair epidemiologists and self-appointed anthropologists indulge cultural stereotypes to speculate on matters of grave import. Some claim that 
In Italy and Spain, a cultural tendency toward intergenerational living was reinforced by an economic catastrophe that forced legions of jobless people to take refuge with their parents. In the decade after the global financial crisis of 2008, the share of Italians between the ages of 25 and 29 who were living with their parents rose to 67 percent from 61 percent, according to 
Italy and Spain have far more officially recognized coronavirus deaths than any other countries — more than 32,000 between them.
Bodies left out on sidewalks. The authorities struggling to keep track of deaths. Funeral parlors, out of coffins, using cardboard boxes made by companies that usually package bananas and shrimp.
The calamity unfolding in Ecuador’s business capital, Guayaquil, offers an ominous look at how officials’ ability to respond to the coronavirus pandemic in Latin America can be dangerously hamstrung by the inequality, weak public services and fragile economies that mark much of the region.
“What we’re seeing in Guayaquil is what can happen in most of South America’s large cities, where pockets of cosmopolitan richness coexist with widespread poverty,” said Alexandra Moncada, who directs activities in Ecuador for the international aid organization CARE.
A country of 17 million, Ecuador has one of the highest official rates of coronavirus infections and deaths, per capita, in Latin America. The 
Ecuador’s president, Lenín Moreno, has warned that the real figure is much higher, but that because testing is limited, the true extent of infections is impossible to determine.
It is still unclear why the country has been affected so deeply. Some experts believe the virus may have traveled along the country’s deep migratory links with hard-hit Spain and Italy, then spread as Ecuador lagged in adopting social distancing measures.
Some Americans living in African nations are watching the 
Mask shortages in hospitals. 
“Africa just felt better,” said John Shaw, who has lived for two years in Nairobi, Kenya, with his wife and two sons. “There are a lot of unknowns in terms of how Americans will deal with this crisis. It didn’t feel obvious to us at all that it will go well there.”
As the pandemic spreads and infections increase across the world, many Americans working or studying abroad have returned home. U.S. 
The 
The 
As a result, some Americans have decided to stay in Africa, which was among the places that President Trump notably described with a disparaging and vulgar epithet.
Seismometers may be built to detect earthquakes, but their mechanical ears hear much more. Even the everyday hum of humanity — people moving about on cars, trains and planes — has a seismically detectable heartbeat.
But as billions of people have been instructed to stay home to curtail the pandemic’s spread, the roar of urban life has turned into a whisper all over the world. Today, in cities large and small, the thumping pulse of civilization is now barely detectable on seismograms.
“It did make the scale of the shutdowns a bit more real to me,” said 
With seismometers, Ms. Labedz said, you can see the collective willingness of millions of the world’s urban dwellers to hunker down.
 
Scientists are now able to better hear the planet’s natural tectonic soundtrack. 
“We can detect smaller earthquakes, just like how it’s easier to hear a phone ring in a library than at a rock concert,” Ms. Labedz said.
The normally smudgy skies above India have been clearing in recent days, as 
One result is 
“I don’t know how long this will last,” said Sudhir Kumar Bose, a retired English professor in New Delhi, the capital. “But right now I feel much better.”
Those clear skies might do more than just lift people’s moods.
Multiple studies have found that exposure to fine particulate matter puts people at heightened risk for lung cancer, heart attacks, strokes and even premature death. 
In an analysis of 3,080 U.S. counties, the study’s authors found that a slight increase in long-term pollution exposure could have serious coronavirus-related consequences, even accounting for other factors like smoking rates and population density. A person living for decades in a county with high levels of fine particulate matter, for example, was 15 percent more likely to die from the virus than someone in a region with slightly less air pollution.
That is a worrying finding for countries with far worse pollution than the U.S. — including India, where the coronavirus caseload now tops 4,000 and is 
“Most countries don’t take it seriously enough and aren’t doing enough given the scale of the harm that air pollution is doing to all of our health,” said Beth Gardiner, a journalist and the author of a book on the subject.
Eight doctors in Britain have died from the coronavirus. All of them were immigrants.
In a country divided by Brexit and the anti-immigrant movement that birthed it, the deaths of the doctors — from Egypt, India, Nigeria, Pakistan, Sri Lanka and Sudan — attest to the extraordinary dependence of Britain’s treasured health service on workers from abroad.
Their work is more perilous than ever. On Wednesday, Britain marked its highest single day death toll, nearly 1,000 people, bringing the total number of deaths to more than 7,000. 
Dr. Adil el-Tayar, 64, originally from Sudan, was among the first doctors to die from the coronavirus in Britain. His cousin, Dr. Hisham el-Khidir, said better protective gear and screening protocols could have saved him.
“In our morbidity analyses, we go through each and every case and ask, ‘Was it preventable? Was it avoidable?’” he said. “Even with all the difficulties, I’ve got to say the answer has to be yes.”
Britain is not the only country reckoning with its debt to foreign doctors. In the United States, where
As the coronavirus pandemic unleashes the worst global crisis in decades, China has been locked in a 
For months, the Chinese government’s propaganda machine had been fending off criticism of Beijing’s handling of the coronavirus outbreak, and it finally seemed to be finding an audience. Voices as varied as the World Health Organization, the Serbian government and the rapper Cardi B hailed China’s approach as decisive and responsible.
But China could not savor the praise for long. In recent days, foreign leaders — even in friendly nations like Iran — have 
China’s critics, including the Trump administration, have accused the Communist Party’s authoritarian leadership of exacerbating the outbreak by initially trying to conceal it. But China is trying to rewrite its role, leveraging its increasingly sophisticated global propaganda machine to cast itself as the munificent, responsible leader that triumphed where others have stumbled.
What narrative prevails has implications far beyond an international blame game. When the outbreak subsides, governments worldwide will confront crippled economies, unknown death tolls and a profound loss of trust among their people. Whether Beijing can step into that void, or is pilloried for it, may determine the fate of its ambitions for global leadership.
Reporting was contributed by Benjamin Mueller, Richard Pérez-Peña, Karen Zraick,