
Britain confirmed on Thursday that it would prolong its coronavirus lockdown for at least three more weeks. But the government shed little light on how it might eventually relax restrictions without causing another surge in infections.
The widely expected extension was announced by Dominic Raab, the foreign secretary. Mr. Raab has assumed the duties of Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who is recuperating from the virus at his country residence, Chequers.
“We’re now at both a delicate and dangerous phase in this pandemic,” Mr. Raab said at a news conference. Lifting the lockdown, he said, would “risk all the progress we’ve made.”
“Now is not the moment to give the coronavirus a second chance,” he said.
Relaxing the restrictions would not only raise the risk of new outbreak, Mr. Raab said, it would also damage the economy. The government would then probably be forced to impose a second lockdown, he said, which might shatter confidence.
The restrictions will now last at least until the second week of May.
Mr. Raab set out five prerequisites for easing restrictions. They included a “sustained and consistent fall in the daily death rates,” confidence that hospitals could cope with the flow of patients, more capacity for testing, more protective equipment, and a judgment, made with the advice of government health experts, that there would not be a second wave of infections.
With 861 new deaths announced on Thursday — 100 more than the day before — along with complaints about a lack of masks and gloves, and a major shortfall in testing, Britain appears far from meeting three of those prerequisites. Only the hospitals, with a small decline in the number of coronavirus patients and a growing number of beds, are a bright spot.
President Jair Bolsonaro of Brazil on Thursday fired his health minister after a disagreement over how tough lockdown measures should be.
Mr. Bolsonaro had repeatedly butted heads with the minister, Luiz Henrique Mandetta, who pushed for strict social isolation guidelines to slow the spread of the coronavirus in Brazil, Latin America’s largest nation.
Mr. Bolsonaro, who has 
Mr. Bolsonaro and Mr. Mandetta also sparred over a malaria drug being studied as a treatment for some coronavirus patients. Mr. Bolsonaro has portrayed the drug as a reliable cure, but Mr. Mandetta has been far more cautious.
Their disagreements, which played out publicly in recent weeks, left Brazilians with conflicting messages from the federal government.
Most governors have sided with Mr. Mandetta. Starting in mid-March, they ordered business shutdowns, curtailed public transportation and urged people to stay at home to the extent possible. Those measures have also put Brazil on track to shed millions of jobs and enter into a deep recession.
“The medicine to treat the patient cannot have collateral effects that are more severe than the illness,” Mr. Bolsonaro said.
Ian Bremmer, president of Eurasia Group, a political risk consultancy, called Mr. Mandetta’s dismissal an “incredibly irresponsible decision” and speculated that it was driven by the minister’s growing popularity as he publicly confronted his boss. “The president’s ego couldn’t handle it,” 
In a televised address Thursday night, Mr. Bolsonaro called Mr. Mandetta’s departure a “consensual divorce.” As the president spoke, Brazilians in several cities took to their windows to bang pots in protest and cry, “Out with Bolsonaro!”
As of Tuesday afternoon, Brazil
Mr. Mandetta, a center-right lawmaker, saw his popularity soar as he presided over daily press conferences. His steady style provided a sharp contrast to Mr. Bolsonaro’s tempestuous handling of the crisis. The president has spoken flippantly about the pandemic, saying that Brazilians would not catch he disease because they can be dunked in raw sewage “and don’t catch anything.”
Mr. Bolsonaro appointed a Rio de Janeiro oncologist, Nelson Teich, to head the health ministry. Appearing alongside Mr. Bolsonaro, the new minister said: “Health and the economy don’t compete against each other, they are complementary. Here everything will be handled in a technical and scientific way.”
President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, bowing before the accelerating advance of the coronavirus across the country, announced on Thursday that he had ordered the postponement of a military parade and flag-waving celebrations marking the Red Army’s defeat of Nazi Germany in 1945.
In a somber address on state television, Mr. Putin said the Victory Day events, which had been scheduled for May 9, would have to be put off because the “risks associated with the epidemic, whose peak has not passed yet, are extremely high.”
The decision to delay the Red Square parade and other events is the second time that the pandemic has disrupted the Kremlin’s plans in a serious way. Mr. Putin last month 
Until Thursday, Mr. Putin had procrastinated on delaying the Red Square parade and other Victory Day festivities, including marches by hundreds of thousands of ordinary citizens in Moscow and cities across the country who lost relatives in World War II.
Russia has 
The decision delays a centerpiece of Mr. Putin’s 20-year-rule: an enormous annual display of military might and patriotic pride intended to showcase both Russia’s past triumphs and its current revival as a great power.
In a replay of Soviet-style methods of preparing the public for bad news, Mr. Putin’s announcement followed a joint statement issued this week by veterans’ groups across the country asking the Kremlin to delay the parade, allowing Mr. Putin to cast the postponement as a response to the public will.
The deaths of 31 people, at least five of whom had the coronavirus, in less than a month at a Canadian nursing home has emerged as 
The deaths were discovered late last week at 
They found dehydrated residents lying listless in bed, unfed for days, with excrement seeping out of their diapers.
“I’d never seen anything like it in my 32-year nursing career,” said 
After she left the home, she said, she collapsed in her car and wept.
Ms. Mule said a skeleton staff of two nurses had been left to care for a private residence, which has nearly 150 beds. The remaining staff had fled amid the outbreak of the coronavirus, leaving patients, some paralyzed or with other chronic illnesses, to fend for themselves.
The Montreal police, Quebec’s health ministry and the 
No other Canadian province has been hit harder by the virus than Quebec, which has 15,857 cases and 630 people dead. Health officials say retirement homes account for roughly half the province’s death toll.
In the United States, 
The phenomenon has been seen across Europe, as well. In Spain, soldiers sent to disinfect nursing homes found people 
Like many nations trying to measure 
But in a politically fragmented society, the confusion has led to recrimination and sinister claims, with opposition politicians accusing the 
“Spaniards deserve a government that doesn’t lie to them,” said Pablo Casado, the leader of the opposition Popular Party.
Speaking in Parliament last week, Mr. Casado addressed a direct challenge to Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez: “Tell us if it is true that the real number of victims could double the official figures.”
Officially, 
Mr. Sánchez and other officials have rejected accusations that they intentionally underreported fatalities tied to the coronavirus, but the authorities have begun trying again to measure the losses.
A late-night 
It seemed, at first blush, like a possible reversal in the Trump administration’s longstanding policy of cutting off the spigot of cash to the Palestinians.
Since Mr. Trump took office, the U.S. has eliminated hundreds of millions of dollars in yearly aid to the United Nations aid agency for 
But any suggestion that the administration’s stance toward the Palestinians could be thawing was a misreading.
Palestinian officials said that their policy of having no contact with the Trump administration remained in force and that they expected the money would be doled out through nongovernmental organizations the Trump administration has not assailed. And a United States Embassy official said the aid would not “prejudge future decisions” about American assistance in the West Bank and Gaza.
The Trump administration provided no detail on where exactly the money would end up or how, other than that it would be spent on the West Bank, not Gaza.
And the aid announced Thursday is also considerably less than the $75 million Congressional leaders agreed in December to allocate for civilian and humanitarian programs and institutions not linked to the Palestinian Authority.
Walid Nammour, chief executive of the East Jerusalem Hospital Network, which has been racing to build wards and acquire ventilators to treat a surge of coronavirus patients, said the $5 million amount was so paltry as to be “humiliating.”
“This is really lip service,” he said.
 “We’ve missed $75 million over the past three years,” Mr. Nammour added, citing the annual American aid the hospitals network received from 2012 until Mr. Trump took office. “This is too little, too late.”
Heavily criticized for its slow response to the coronavirus the British government attempted a leap forward last month, buying millions of unproven test kits at high prices.
They didn’t work.
The episode illustrates both the price Britain has paid for being less prepared than some of its peers, and the heated competition among nations to buy gear that is in short supply.
Britain, like the United States, was slow to test for the virus in large numbers, and still trails many of its peers; while Germany conducts 
By the time Britain began pushing hard to expand testing, it trailed in the competition to buy the limited supply of compounds, tubes and swabs needed for the tests.
So last month, Britain bought a different kind of test: not one for the virus, to tell who is currently infected, but a test for antibodies produced by the immune system, to tell who has been infected. They paid at least $20 million for 2 million kits from two Chinese companies, and paid similar prices for 1.5 million from other sources. 
Prime Minister Boris Johnson said, “it has the potential to be a total game changer.”
But tests at Oxford University showed the tests were unreliable, and most of them went unused.
There was no widely available antibody test, to identify those who had the virus and recovered, and, hopefully, were immune to the virus. Officials hoped it would be a crucial tool in determining who could safely return to work.
But an antibody test would not be very useful in meeting the most pressing need: identifying the infected who are spreading the virus. It takes several days or longer for the body to produce antibodies.
British officials said they are trying to get their money back.
President Trump, who this week 
But a review of the W.H.O.’s record shows that while it made mistakes, it has responded to the coronavirus better than it has to previous diseases, and better than many national governments.
Mr. Trump and some of his aides contend that China concealed the true extent of its initial outbreak, and that the W.H.O. accepted and repeated China’s descriptions, contributing to other countries’ being ill prepared.
Experts say there was some truth to that in the first weeks of the epidemic, and it contributed to a decision by the W.H.O., always reluctant to criticize a member country, to delay 
By late January, when China’s central government had swung into action, locking down tens of millions of people and accusing local officials of hiding the truth, there was no mistaking that there was a major crisis.
After China began its pivot, W.H.O. officials repeatedly warned the rest of the world to take the coronavirus seriously and prepare for social distancing, extensive testing, isolation of the sick and contact tracing — warnings that were heeded spottily, at best.
For weeks after China’s shift and the W.H.O.’s warnings, Mr. Trump continued to downplay the seriousness of the virus and the need for social distancing.
The 
Greece will move 2,380 of the most vulnerable asylum seekers from overcrowded camps on the Aegean Islands to less cramped facilities on the mainland to curb the risk of a coronavirus outbreak, the government said on Thursday.
The relocation of the migrants — notably those with chronic health problems and the elderly, along with their relatives — will begin immediately after Greek Orthodox Easter this weekend and is expected to take two weeks, the Migration Ministry said. Some will be moved to migrant centers on the mainland, while others will be kept at hotels and apartments.
“The aim of the measure is to further reduce the risk posed by the possible outbreak at a state reception facility,” the ministry said, referring to the Aegean Island camps that rights groups have long deplored as substandard and unsanitary.
There have been no reports of confirmed coronavirus infections in any of the island camps, which host around 40,000 of the nearly 100,000 migrants currently in Greece. Two reception facilities on the mainland have been quarantined after outbreaks there.
The transfer of some 1,600 unaccompanied refugee minors from camps in Greece to other European Union countries is already underway. Luxembourg received 12 children and Germany, which is to take in 58 on Saturday, has said it will host up to 500. France, Portugal, Switzerland, Ireland, Croatia and Lithuania have also pledged to help.
There are 5,200 unaccompanied children from Syria, Afghanistan, Iraq and African countries living in Greek migrant camps.
On Wednesday, when he watched the first group board a flight to Luxembourg, George Koumoutsakos, deputy migration minister, said it was just “a beginning, a show of tangible solidarity.”
“It sets an example for other bigger, more powerful countries with bigger populations,” he said.
Early research on underlying health conditions associated with the coronavirus has highlighted that obesity appears to be one of the most important predictors of severe illness, but asthma does not.
New studies point to obesity as the second-most significant risk factor, after only older age, for patients being hospitalized with Covid-19, the illness caused by the virus. Young adults with obesity appear to be at particular risk, studies show.
The research is preliminary, and not peer reviewed, but it buttresses anecdotal reports from doctors who say they have been struck by how many seriously ill younger patients of theirs with obesity are otherwise healthy.
For people with asthma, the outbreak of a disease that can lead to respiratory failure was particularly worrisome. Many health organizations have cautioned that asthmatics are most likely at higher risk for severe illness if they get the virus.
But data released this month by New York State shows that only about five percent of Covid-19 deaths in New York were of people who were known to have asthma. Nearly eight percent of the U.S. population — close to 25 million people — has asthma,
The research into the effects of asthma at this early stage is minimal and not always consistent. A recent commentary
“We’re not seeing a lot of patients with asthma,” said Dr. Bushra Mina, a pulmonary and critical care physician at Lenox Hill Hospital in New York City, which has treated more than 800 cases. The more common risk factors, he added, are “morbid obesity, diabetes and chronic heart disease.”
Lines of cars stretch for miles to pick up groceries from 
In a United States economy that has been hailed for its record-shattering successes, the most basic necessities — food, shelter and medical care — are all suddenly at risk because of the pandemic.
The latest crisis has played out in sobering economic data and bleak headlines — most recently on Thursday, when the Labor Department said 
That brought the four-week total to 22 million, roughly the net number of jobs created in a nine-and-a-half-year stretch that ended with the pandemic’s arrival.
Well before the coronavirus established a foothold, the American economy had been playing out on a split screen.
On one were impressive achievements: the lowest jobless rate in half a century, a soaring stock market and the longest expansion on record.
On the other, a very different story of stinging economic weaknesses unfolded. Years of limp wage growth left workers struggling to afford essentials. Irregular work schedules caused weekly paychecks to surge and dip unpredictably. Job-based benefits were threadbare or nonexistent. In this economy, four of 10 adults don’t have the resources on hand to cover an 
More than two dozen Kenyans held in quarantine on the Kenyatta University campus in the capital, Nairobi, have protested over 
Some said they were 
The protests at the university dormitory on Wednesday came days after more 30 people escaped another quarantine facility in the country’s northeast. Officials said police officers had 
Kenya’s government, facing criticism for mishandling quarantine measures, has yet to explain why people in quarantine were being asked to pay or were held in isolation for longer periods. The government has also been accused of charging poor workers staying in isolation units and holding individuals in conditions they say caused them mental anguish.
From the outset, many of those placed into mandatory quarantine 
Travelers who returned to the country in late March before the suspension of international flights were among those being held. Passengers who could pay at the time were 
The Health Ministry has reported 225 
Japan’s prime minister, Shinzo Abe, said on Thursday that he would declare a national emergency, calling for measures to slow the spread of the coronavirus before a weeklong holiday that is a popular travel period.
Mr. Abe had 
The national declaration will give governors the authority to call on businesses to close and residents to stay inside. They will, however, have no power to enforce the requests.
Japanese lawmakers have so far declined to issue the kinds of mandatory lockdowns put in place in China, Europe and the United States, with some arguing that the country’s Constitution prohibits such measures. Instead, officials have been put in the position of pleading for voluntary compliance.
Experts warn that during the holiday period known as Golden Week, starting April 29, people could spread the pathogen to previously unaffected areas, overwhelming their medical systems.
“As a way to prevent the illness from becoming rampant, I am requesting that governors urge residents to absolutely avoid unnecessary visits to family, travel and movement across regional borders,” Mr. Abe said after meeting with a special advisory group.
He said that the nation would provide individuals with cash payments of 100,000 yen, nearly $1,000, to alleviate economic hardship.
In the last month, Japan has seen a sharp rise in confirmed infections, to more than 8,000. The numbers remain low compared with many countries, but health experts fear that failure to take timely precautions could lead to a sudden jump.
Mr. Abe has come under heavy criticism for his inconsistent approach, taking dramatic actions like calling for all schools to close without first consulting experts, then seemingly hanging back as the outbreak worsened.
As the coronavirus pandemic ravages many countries, China’s success in curbing its own epidemic is giving rise to an increasingly strident blend of 
A restaurant in northern China put up a banner celebrating the virus’s spread in the United States. A widely circulated cartoon showed foreigners being sorted into trash bins. In Beijing and Shanghai, foreigners have been barred from some shops and gyms.
Perhaps nowhere has xenophobia manifested itself more strongly than in the southern city of Guangzhou, a manufacturing hub with a large African population. After five Nigerians there tested positive for the virus, African residents reported being evicted from their homes and hotels. 
They have also been ordered to undergo 14-day quarantines at their own expense, even if they have no recent travel history or have already tested negative. Images shared on social media showed black people forced to sleep on a sidewalk, and a sign banning black people from a McDonald’s.
transcript
From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is The Daily.”
Today, in the middle of the pandemic, China has expelled journalists from The Wall Street Journal, The Washington Post, and The New York Times. One of those reporters, my colleague Paul Mozur, recounts his final days there.
It’s Thursday, April 16.
Paul Mozur, tell us about these text messages that you got a few weeks ago.
So it’s late, probably a bit after midnight. And I am in Shanghai, in my apartment, where I’ve lived for the past three years. And I’m doing that thing, where you’re trying to read in bed, but the phone keeps buzzing.
And I’ve told myself, this is the last time I’m going to check, and I look at the phone. And for the first time ever, when I’ve picked up my phone while I’m trying to sleep, it’s actually relevant. And so what I see is, one of my colleagues, in our sort of private chat group for covering the coronavirus, sends a message. And it’s a memo from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in China. And the first bit, it’s all kind of stock language. It’s not too big of a deal. But then I get to point two, and I read point two, and I have to read it again. Because what it says, in this roundabout way, is basically that the entire staff of The New York Times, all of our reporters in China, have to leave the country in just a few weeks. We’ve effectively been expelled.
It’s not just us that’s been thrown out, it’s also a number of reporters with The Wall Street Journal and The Washington Post. So this is the greater part of the U.S. press corps in China being tossed.
So you’re on your phone in bed, looking at a memo that basically says your job in China is over?
Yes, our time is up.
As you’re looking at this, what are your colleagues and you saying to each other, as you’re digesting this information from the Chinese government?
You know, I think I’m the first to weigh in, and I say, let me be the first to say this expletive: [EXPLETIVE]
[EXPLETIVE] And then that kind of starts it off.
There’s some agreement about that. There’s various other kind of expressions of shock, and then —
 — our Asia editor, Adrienne Carter, weighs in and says, we’re still trying to figure out what this means. We’re going to have some calls tomorrow. But it doesn’t look good.
I think we knew for a long time that it was possible our days were numbered. But even if you kind of know that the Chinese government isn’t happy with you, the idea of kind of closing a chapter of more than 13 years of your life spent focusing on a place, learning a language, being there is just impossible to kind of deal with instantly. It just felt totally surreal. So I kind of wandered out to my balcony, and it was a cool kind of — the fog was coming into Shanghai, and it was sort of just a dark night. And I just kind of spent the next hour or two just sort of outside and thinking. I was sort of a nostalgic mess, in a way.
Wow, so this is basically a large scale media purge. I wonder what explanation the Chinese government gives for this, because it feels like this violates decades of journalistic tradition, where the U.S. has reporters in China, and China has reporters in the U.S.
Yeah, ostensibly, it’s a tit-for-tat. A few weeks ago, the Trump administration put a cap on the number of Chinese journalists who work for state media that can be in the United States. And China calls this an effective expulsion of 60 Chinese media workers. So this is the response from the Chinese government to throw us out. But there’s a lot more to it than that. It becomes really clear, pretty quickly after, because a commentary goes up on state media and asks the question, why are these journalists being thrown out?
Mhm.
And it doesn’t bring up the United States. What it goes into is or coverage. And it says that we were overly critical and biased in attacking the Chinese government in how it responded to the coronavirus, that we were biased against China generally. And then it also brings up Xinjiang. And it says that the stories that we told over the past year about Uighurs being locked away in camps are exaggerated and false and just not the true narrative. And so I think at that point, you kind of see, yes, on the one hand, this is a tit-for-tat. But on the other hand, it’s about so much more.
So once you have more or less made peace with the fact that you’re going to be kicked out, what do you do?
Well, you do what you have to do when you have to leave very quickly. I start buying plane tickets. And you can’t think of a worse time to be thrown out of a country, because borders are closing all over, and any flight has some level of virus risk. And so —
Right.
— I get a flight ticket to the United States. I get one to Japan. I get went to Korea. I get three tickets. And then as borders are closing, I actually buy two more —
Wow.
— more close to my date so I can get out quicker before these borders close. But then I realize I have a few days left, and I have a bit of this — well, this sort of dilemma, because I was supposed to go on a reporting trip the day I heard about this thing. And we canceled it. But in my experience in journalism has been you always go out when you can. And so I decided, OK, one last hurrah. Here we go.
And what is this reporting job?
Well, it’s supposed to be a pretty routine article. China, at this point, is getting back to normal. Life is starting to return to the rhythms that had been there pre-epidemic. So the idea is to find a sort of more middle-class town and go there and talk to people, and see how dazed they are, how excited they are to be out. That kind of thing. And so we choose the town of Hefei, which is a city about three or four hours away from Shanghai by train. And my colleague and I planned the trip, and we decide to go there for two days and see what life is like there.
 So we go to this mall to try to do some interviews.
[SPEAKING CHINESE]
The checkpoints are out. To get into the mall, you need to have your temperature taken by a guard. You need to write down your personal information.
[SPEAKING CHINESE]
And we start talking to a construction worker. And within a few minutes, a police officer comes in and sort of beckons him.
He basically disappears. And we ask him, what happened? He said, oh, the police officer said no assembly here because of the virus.
So we move on. And what becomes apparent is the police officer, he’s stripped off his jacket to go undercover. And he is following us, kind of diving into stores when we look back to see him, and kind of peeking from behind clothing racks to look at what we’re doing.
So we say, all right, well, let’s get out of here. So we hop in a car and we go across town to a pedestrian shopping street. We seem to have lost him. We’re like, OK.
So we’re walking down, and we hear this beat, the beat of pop music. And there’s this fantastic scene.
 It’s the storefront of China Gold, which sells jewelry, and all of the staff are out in front doing these coordinated dance moves.
They’re trying to drum up business. 
And they invite us in. They say, oh, yeah, we’re happy to talk. And so one guy says, you know, for all of our dancing, it’s not helping that much. People want to get out, but nobody has any money to spend. And we’re starting to kind of sit down and sort of set up to talk to him longer, and we look up —  — and who’s coming in the store behind him but that same police officer?
And he goes in the back, has a word with the manager. And just a few minutes later, the guy kind of says, you know what? I’m sorry, I can’t talk.
Ah. So the police are clearly attempting to block your reporting.
Yeah, so I get a little frustrated. But you can’t get rid of these guys, and so they’re basically on us for the rest of the time. And it becomes almost impossible to talk to any regular person about what would be an overwhelmingly positive story.
Paul, I feel like being surveilled by the Chinese authorities is now a somewhat familiar feeling for you when you go on a reporting trip.
Yeah, I was thinking about it, and I think it’s maybe been a dozen times over the past year that I’ve had to deal with security. But the thing is, with something that’s sort of a more basic story like this, you don’t normally get this kind of attention. I mean, that’s the kind of thing you get in really, really sensitive stories, where they know you’re coming and they’ve prepared for you, and they really don’t want you to learn anything. So the idea that just talking to regular people feels so dangerous to them that they’re putting this kind of effort in, I mean, that’s different. And it’s extreme, for sure.
So what happens next?
Well, we go on walk across the park, and we end up at a McDonald’s. So we’re talking about leaving and how frustrated we are by what’s happened. And a man is kind of eating behind us. And he gets up, and as he’s walking out the door, he turns to me and he says, foreign trash.
Wow.
We both kind of look up and we’re sort of shocked. And so we look at him, and he says, yeah, you foreign trash. What are you doing in my country? And then he turns to my Chinese colleague and he says, you [EXPLETIVE], what are you doing with him —
Wow.
— you [EXPLETIVE]. And so she starts wanting to kind of defend me, and she’s very upset. And I have to basically tell her, don’t yell back. He’s menacingly hovering over us. It does feel like it could get physical very easily. And after a few minutes of kind of basically mumbling more nastiness at us, he leaves. Nobody says anything, and everybody goes back to eating. And we try to calm ourselves down.
And Paul, what did you make of that attack from this random stranger?
Well, I mean, as a foreigner, you stand out in China. And there’s a lot of good attention that brings, and there’s some negative attention over the years. But I think there had been a real uptick in xenophobia lately. Online, we’ve seen a lot more nastiness on the Chinese internet about foreigners. And a lot of foreigners are starting to talk about run-ins they’ve had. The reason we went to Hefei in the first place is it was one of the few places we could find a hotel that would accept a foreigner. I called about 30 hotels — and these are American chains, the Hilton and the Marriott — and none of them would accept a foreigner.
Wow.
And so Hefei was partially because we found a Westin that would take us.
Paul, at this point, you’re describing a bunch of experiences that have happened to you in the past, but are happening a lot more intensely in this moment. Government surveillance, anti-Westernism, and of course, you’re about to be kicked out of the country by the government. So are you starting to suspect that this is all linked?
Yeah, I think it all feels a part of the same thing. And everything has been so extreme with the virus. There’s so much fear and there’s so much anger. There’s just so much that feels so heightened that it feels different. And it feels like we’re kind of at a point of change. And it’s not good. It’s not good for a foreigner in the country. But it’s also probably not good for the country itself. It feels like there’s a kind of rejection of what I had thought was an openness to the world in China.
We’ll be right back.
Paul, where do you think rejection of the outside world — this really heightened version of surveillance and xenophobia — where’s this coming from in this moment?
The Chinese government. And I think maybe one way that’s interesting to think about it is through the lens of the virus. So by all rights, the virus appears to start in Wuhan and kind of spreads out from there. But I don’t remember precisely when this was, but a Chinese scientist at some point comes out and says, well, we don’t know precisely where it came from. We don’t know precisely the first patient, or how the first person got infected. And then what happens is Chinese state media and Chinese officials seize on this to say, it seems like maybe it didn’t come from China at all — that it could come from somewhere else.
They’re saying that this virus didn’t come from Wuhan?
They aren’t that pointed about it at first. They just kind of inject this skepticism.
[SPEAKING MANDARIN]
And so then what starts to happen is rumors start to spread. One thing you hear is that, oh, well, the U.S. has a really bad flu season. And the U.S. doesn’t even pay attention to it because the U.S. has a bad health care system. And so it could be that it was in the U.S. for a while and then it came over. And then there’s this sort of more pernicious rumor that a number of Chinese officials seem to endorse —
— pointed to this tweet from a spokesman for China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs, saying, quote, it might be U.S. Army who brought the epidemic to Wuhan. Be transparent. Make public your data. U.S. owe us an explanation.
— which is that the U.S. military brought it to Wuhan, because Wuhan had this military games last year.
The inflammatory tweet echoed a Canada-based conspiracy website’s unsubstantiated claims that America was the real source of the coronavirus, apparently linking it to the U.S. Army’s participation in the Military World Games.
And that during that, a U.S. military representative might have brought it and released it into the city. And these are not small things. This is loud enough that a lot of my Chinese friends are asking me, hey, what do you think about this? Could this be right?
Oh, wow.
And then what starts happening on state media is that you start hearing about cases being imported back into China from the world. They’re not specifying who’s bringing these things back. And oftentimes, it’s Chinese who live overseas or who are traveling overseas, who got infected and came back. But oftentimes, state media just describes this as foreign cases. And so if you’re seeing that every day, and you’re a regular Chinese person, you start to fear seeing a foreigner, because you assume those foreigners —
Right.
— they’re the ones who are bringing the cases back. So I don’t have to worry about anything but people coming from abroad. And who else comes from abroad but foreigners?
So the Chinese government’s tolerance for, and even promotion of, these conspiracy theories that the coronavirus didn’t start in China, but perhaps started in the West — in a place like America — that, in turn, is going to foment xenophobia. A fear, naturally, of Westerners, who Chinese people think will be carrying the virus.
Right. And not just Westerners, too, I mean, anybody who could be perceived as not being from China at this point.
Africans living in Guangzhou say that they’re being kicked out of their homes and face harassment as health workers step up testing for imported infections.
In southern China, where there’s a large African community, a large number of Africans are evicted from their homes out of fear. And hotels won’t have them, so they’re sleeping on the streets. African diplomats are trying to deal with this, but they’re shouted down. McDonald’s and other restaurants won’t let black people in. The United States issues an actual diplomatic warning to African-Americans, saying, avoid this area because of the xenophobia and racism. And so you just see this sort of snowballing effect of this fear growing and growing. All of the fear of the foreigners related to the virus starts to tie into nationalism and a national self-image, all of which has been carefully cultivated by the Chinese Communist Party and the Chinese government.
Paul, why would it be in China’s interest to basically promote this xenophobia right now?
So this is an old trick that the Chinese Communist Party has used in the past. Whenever there’s a fear that the legitimacy of their rule is threatened, if people start to point the fingers at top leaders, they need to find somebody else to blame. And the easiest is foreigners — foreign influence, and often, the United States.
So if we go back to last year, one of the biggest stories here was the Hong Kong protests.
Right.
And for month after month, the front of newspapers, on TV, we just saw fiery clashes, tear gas, police shooting protesters.
This is hugely embarrassing.
Right.
And so what does the Chinese Communist Party do? They blame the protests on the United States and on the West. They say the United States is fomenting this, and it’s an aggressive act against China. And so then, throughout the year as well, we did a lot of coverage of what was going on in Western China, in Xinjiang —
More than a million Uighurs, and others belonging to various Muslim minority groups, are believed to be detained in the Xinjiang region into a vast network of detention centers for what China calls re-education.
— where more than a million minority Uighurs have been held in camps. And for that, too, it gets tons of attention and —
Right.
— people talking about it all over the world. And so, again, they have to find an excuse. And they say, well, the foreign forces and the Western media are making this up. And they’re trying to blacken China and tar China. And so then, we get to this year, and out of nowhere comes this virus. And what becomes very clear is that there’s quite the cover-up at the beginning. And so, again, we’re relentless in our coverage. We put this —
Right
— on the front page. We dissect meticulously how this happened and what happened. And again, the Chinese government sees this as uncompromisingly aggressive and just an embarrassment. And so, once again, how else can you kind of explain it all except to kind of turn the tables and blame foreign influences. And so we see this pattern, where we are a thorn in their side, and they ultimately blame us. And under Chinese leader Xi Jinping, there’s been this idea that China is now a superpower, and that the world needs to take China into account. They need to listen to what China has to say. China will be at the table, and they should respect China. And I think, over and over again, we see in Xi Jinping’s China that there’s less and less room for anything that challenges that idea. And so, now, we’re at a place where one more group of people who would challenge this idea are gone.
Meaning the foreign media?
Yeah, what the Chinese government wants to tell is a story of triumph. They’ve emerged from the virus as the rest of the world is under siege and under lockdown. And the story they want to tell is that the reason they were able to beat the virus is the superiority of the Chinese system. This sort of enlightened authoritarianism that is able to technocratically manage every variable and fix everything and make things right. And when they look around the world, they can point and say, look at all of these democracies. They’re suffering terribly. More people are dying. More people are sick. They’re in crisis and we’ve gotten through this. We succeeded. That means we are the new superpower. We are the sort of country in ascendancy and everybody must pay their respects now.
Right. And of course, the one thing that could get in the way of that — that idealized version of that story, that China conquered this virus and did better with it than the West — are a bunch of Western reporters poking around, finding examples of failure, or finding the reemergence of the virus. I mean, that just is incompatible with that story.
Exactly.
Paul, correct me if I’m wrong. At this point, there’s still an order telling you that you need to leave China. This unsuccessful reporting trip has come to an end. So where are you in your process of being expelled?
So this is sort of the end of March. And the thing is the virus is spreading around the world and countries are closing their borders to foreigners. So if I want to go anywhere outside of the United States and be in the same time zone and continue to cover China, I need to leave quicker. And so I actually end up leaving just a few days later, much faster than I thought I would. And so I pack up my stuff — [INDISTINCT CLATTER] — I walk out the door —
Taking one last look.
^[DOOR CLOSING]^
I leave my apartment —
[SPEAKING MANDARIN]
— and I head for the airport for a final flight out of a country that has held my imagination and just captured my attention and just been so incredibly interesting that it’s been impossible to leave for 15 years.
I get on a flight and leave it for what will probably be the final time in a long time. And I find myself a few hours later —
Ladies and gentlemen, we have landed at Narita Airport. [INAUDIBLE] with our time difference between Shanghai and —
— in Japan. And I get through just before the borders are closing to Americans —
It’s been our pleasure to serve you on this flight. Thank you for flying with [INAUDIBLE], your China flight —
— and start a two-week quarantine and a new life outside of China.
I mean, I can’t imagine that it’s easy or even really possible to cover China from outside of China, right?
Yeah, it’s a different sort of thing. I think one of the really important things about having journalists in China is that for all of the propaganda and all of the intimidation, Chinese people still want to talk. They love telling stories. They love talking about what their experiences are. And one of our best ways to just find out what was happening is to go to places and talk to regular people. And now that avenue is cut off to us. And so we’re going to be reliant on filings and government documents. And we’re just going to have a vaguer picture, a far less precise picture of what’s going on in the place.
Right, at a moment when it would seem like the eyes and ears of journalists would be as essential as ever. So how are you feeling about this?
You know, it feels like it couldn’t be at a worse time, because now is the most important and most interesting moment to be in China, because China is as powerful and as large as it’s ever been. And it’s on this steep path of authoritarianism. Xi Jinping will not step down the way previous presidents did. He will continue to push this triumphalism. And where that goes and what it means for Chinese people and for the world is probably, in my mind, the most important story. To not be able to be there to see it just feels like an irreparable loss. And it makes me feel, I guess, grateful for the time I had there.
Do you think, Paul, that when this is all over — this pandemic — and perhaps China reaches a point where this triumphalism has been achieved, that things might return to the way that they were before all of this? For journalists like you, and for the relationship between China and the West?
I really do think we’ve crossed a point in the U.S.-China relationship that will be difficult to come back from. I think both countries have made it clear the way they view the world is at odds.
And it’s unfortunate, because the one way we could get back to where there is more understanding is to have exchanges and to have people on the ground, trying to explain China to the United States and the United States to China.
And that’s not happening.
Yeah, that’s not happening. And I don’t see it getting better anytime soon.
Paul, thank you very much. I know you don’t really want to be in the position that you’re in, but we wish you the very best of luck.
Thanks.
We’ll be right back.
Here’s what else you need to know today. U.S. retail sales, which include purchases in stores and online, as well as in restaurants and bars, experienced their largest monthly decline in three decades in March, as lockdowns changed consumer behavior. The depth of the decline, nearly 9 percent, according to the Commerce Department, is significant because the retail industry accounts for 1 out of every 10 American jobs. April’s retail sales may be even worse, because state lockdowns have only intensified since March. And —
Among all of the other candidates I competed with in the Democratic primary, there’s no one I’ve agreed with 100 percent of the time over the years. But one thing I appreciate about Joe Biden is he will always tell you where he stands.
In a video released on Wednesday, Elizabeth Warren became the latest former rival to endorse Joe Biden for president, as the Democratic Party moves to coalesce around his candidacy.
When you disagree, he’ll listen. And not just listen, but really hear you and treat you with respect, no matter where you’re coming from.
In the past week, both Bernie Sanders and former President Barack Obama have also endorsed Biden.
That’s it for The Daily.” I’m Michael Barbaro, see you tomorrow.
Some of the uglier manifestations of nationalism have been fueled by government propaganda, which has pointed to China’s response to the virus as evidence of the governing Communist Party’s superiority. 
Separately on Wednesday, China began a nationwide study of asymptomatic coronavirus carriers as numbers showed that many people who tested positive for the virus did not develop symptoms.
CCTV, the state broadcaster, also reported that a study of asymptomatic carriers was underway in 10 cities, including Wuhan, where the virus first emerged. “The aim of the blood tests is to determine whether there are antibodies for the virus inside the body,” Ding Gangqiang, an official at China’s Center for Disease Control, said on state television.
Singapore announced a record 
While 
Nearly half of Singapore’s roughly 3,700 coronavirus cases are among low-wage migrant workers, who have built the gleaming, modern city-state. About 200,000 such workers, many from India and Bangladesh, have been quarantined to their dormitories, with healthy residents gradually being transferred to other housing to prevent community transmission.
After weeks of slow transmission, Singapore began recording a rapid rise in cases in March, as travelers from Europe and the United States brought the virus with them. But no imported cases have been recorded for nearly a week.
The rapid spread of the coronavirus among foreign laborer communities has prompted the Singaporean government to vow changes in the way migrants are treated, even if the dormitories met standards set by the International Labor Organization. 
“In terms of living conditions for foreign workers, collectively many of us were blind to this, and this has to change,” said Teo Yik Ying, the dean of the Saw Swee Hock School of Public Health at the National University of Singapore. “But in Singapore, it will change because we are committed to learning lessons from every epidemic.”
An Evangelical bishop in Chile who attended a large gathering of clergymen in mid-March as stricter social distancing rules were about to be imposed died Tuesday of the coronavirus, his church said.
Bishop Mario Salfate Chacana, 67, a senior Pentecostal leader, had been hospitalized since March 23, when he tested positive for the virus. He was one of four preachers who tested positive for the virus after attending a gathering of 300 evangelical leaders on March 16 in Paine, a small city on the outskirts of Santiago.
Shortly before the service was held, Chile’s government shut down its borders and 
In a statement, Chile’s Methodist Pentecostal Church described Bishop Chacana as a “man of God” who served his congregation with “diligence.”
As of Thursday morning, 
Some Evangelical pastors in Latin America have denounced lockdown measures that impede church services, calling them an infringement of religious freedom. In Chile, prosecutors 
Ursula von der Leyen, the head of the European Commission, the executive arm of the European Union, extended a “heartfelt apology” to Italy on behalf of Europe for not supporting it enough at the beginning of the coronavirus outbreak.
Ms. von der Leyen said that “too many were not there on time when Italy needed a helping hand at the very beginning.” Luigi Di Maio, Italy’s foreign minister, said Ms. von der Leyen’s apology was “an important act of truth.”
With almost 
Ms. von der Leyen said that since then, Europe has changed its behavior and became “the world’s beating heart of solidarity,” pointing to joint efforts to share medical equipment and medical teams, including doctors from Romania working in Italy and ventilators from Germany being sent to Spain.
But Italy and Spain, the worst hit southern European countries, have repeatedly said that the lack of European solidarity extends to the financial response by the European Union, which is led by the northern wealthier nations and has rejected calls for the issuance of joint debt.
As Britain prepared on Thursday for its weekly applause session to show support for the National Health Service, 
The poem, titled “You Clap for Me Now” and written by Darren James Smith, begins by addressing xenophobia and nods to the Brexit campaign that tapped into some Britons’ fears of outsiders flooding the job market.
The threat, the poem reveals, is the coronavirus — not the immigrant workers who have become essential to treating patients and keeping the economy running during the pandemic.
“Don’t say go home. Don’t say not here. You know how it feels for home to be a prison. You know how it feels to live in fear,” workers recite.
Sachini Imbuldeniya, the video’s producer, 
“We decided to turn it into a short and shareable video featuring a mixture of first-, second- and third-generation immigrants” living in Britain, she said.
The hashtag #YouClapForMeNow was trending on Twitter in Britain, and the video has been shared by thousands, including politicians, and viewed millions of times on social media.
“London would not be London without those who have chosen to make our city their home,” the city’s mayor, Sadiq Khan, 
President Daniel Ortega of Nicaragua has reappeared after an unexplained 34-day absence from public view, giving no explanation for his prolonged disappearance.
The president had not spoken publicly since the coronavirus pandemic erupted, leading many Nicaraguans and international observers to wonder whether he was ill and in quarantine.
But Mr. Ortega looked well during a live televised speech Wednesday night, wearing his usual baseball cap and windbreaker, and flanked by his wife and several other officials. Many people took his appearance as a bid to quell rumors.
Nicaragua, a country of 6.4 million people, has been widely criticized for its unusually casual approach to the pandemic, leaving schools open and allowing large public events to take place. The government claims that only three people currently have Covid-19, the illness caused by the virus, and only one has died from it.
The World Health Organization has said that it is worried about Nicaragua’s lack of social distancing, its sparse testing for the virus and its lack of contact tracing.
Mr. Ortega said on Wednesday that the contagion is a message from God.
“I am convinced that this pandemic, this virus that has multiplied throughout the planet, that there is no force that can block it, there is no barrier that can block it, there is no wall that can block it,” he said.
Mr. Ortega, a socialist, used his speech to take aim at a familiar target, the United States, and its handling of the coronavirus.
“Nicaraguans who have been deported tell about how they were caged, with no attention to their health,” he said. That is no surprise, he added, when the United States, for all its might, does not have the capacity to give answers to its own citizens.”
Australia will consider lifting some restrictions in four weeks if the number of new cases continues to drop and crucial public health benchmarks are met, officials said on Thursday.
Australia remains in “the suppression phase,” said Prime Minister Scott Morrison. Before restrictions can ease, the country will need to extend surveillance measures, improve contact tracing and respond to local outbreaks faster, he said.
Research by the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine indicates that 
As of Thursday, the country has 6,457 reported cases and 63 people have died, with 42 on ventilators. More than half of those who have contracted the virus have recovered, Mr. Morrison said.
Economically, Australians would also need to prepare for some “very sobering news” in the months ahead, he added. “It will be a different world on the other side of the virus.”
Australia had previously 
Residents of a village in northern India attacked medical workers and police officers who were carrying out health screenings, officials said on Thursday.
Saurabh Jorawal, a local official in the state of Bihar, where the attack occurred, said that villagers in East Champaran threw stones at workers on Wednesday, injuring at least five people, some of them seriously.
“We sent in more police, and they arrested 44 people from the village,” Mr. Jorawal said.
As fears of a rapid viral spread rise in India, health care workers have reported being assaulted, spat at and 
India has reported more than 12,000 infections and 414 deaths.
Police officials 
Officials have faced staggering challenges enforcing the lockdown, which has shut most businesses, leaving millions of Indians dependent on food subsidies and other government handouts to survive.
Reporting was contributed by Niki Kitsantonis, Frances Robles, Monika Pronczuk, Mark Landler, Constant Méheut,