
Re “
Calling on Prince Harry and Meghan Markle to rise above racist taunts as the Obamas did totally misses the sad and tragic point. British tabloids are notoriously vicious and personal, nothing like American newspapers of record. Nobody should be forced to live with such daily abuse.
Princess Diana faced much the same thing, without the racist twist, and found it unbearable. The Windsors did nothing to protect her from the tidal wave of defamatory distortions and outright lies flowing nonstop from these loathsome rags.
Harry believes that his primary duty is to his wife and child, and is drawing the line. Good on him. There are plenty of other Windsors in the immediate line of succession to continue the royal show.
Vaughn A. Carney
Wouldn’t we all love to be part-time royals as Harry and Meghan, Duke and Duchess of Sussex, seek to be? Wouldn’t we all love to keep the royal titles, live in glorious housing on the grounds of Windsor Castle and attend only the royal duties we choose?
Meghan and Harry want it both ways — keeping the royal perks (and titles), keeping income derived from Prince Charles, but living abroad half the year and focusing on their favored charitable works. Instead of appearing as self-indulgent and entitled, they should follow one of two options — handle their royal responsibilities with a sense of duty and honor, or withdraw completely and follow their own path.
Seeking part-time royal status seems to be wanting all the advantages but not the hard day-to-day work of representing the British monarchy.
Marla Allard
Re “
I’m an English woman, now a Canadian citizen, and I’m aware that racism lives in every country. However, I’ve watched, with great sadness, the rise of xenophobic Britain. Nurtured by a delinquent government and rabidly poisonous press, uncritical self-aggrandizement has been given free rein.
I wish Harry and Megan every success in their bid to escape the joint tentacles of outdated royalty and unjustified public criticism. The attitudes displayed since Brexit have convinced me that I, certainly, will never live in the United Kingdom again.
I’d like to say to the couple that Ontario’s not a bad place for a young couple to raise a lovely family, y’know!
Frances Mawson
Re “
The Duchess of Sussex is not and was not “a target for racists” beyond those who are normally bigoted. We have not suffered from state-sponsored racism and do not have civil rights legislation on the U.S. model because we have never needed it.
Megxit, if it happens, will be partly the product of the conduct of the duchess and her husband, conduct that has caused the applause and adulation initially heaped upon them to evaporate. We Britons enjoy a constitutional monarchy whose members are not “expensive anachronisms or useful distractions.” Although the role of the monarch is largely ceremonial, the members of the armed forces make their oath of allegiance to her, thus depoliticizing the military.
I am a monarchist but not a royalist, which means that I support the institution as a method of governance but deprecate many of the members of the royal family who are useless distractions and unfortunate reminders of feudalism.
Nicolas Greenstone
Re “
It appears that not even The Times is immune to the inanity that has characterized the coverage of Harry and Meghan’s putative plans to move to Canada.
Your one-dimensional description of Canada as a “sprawling, bone-chillingly cold country” is the kind of stereotypical nonsense that makes me think you’ve been watching too many Bob and Doug McKenzie sketches on “Great White North,” eh? Why don’t you tell the world the streets of Toronto are patrolled by moose-riding Mounties in red coats and Stetsons wading through the snow drifts and singing, “I’m a lumberjack, and I’m O.K.”?
Count me as one Canadian who does not require the presence of a couple of second-rank royals turned tabloid celebrities to “vindicate” my country’s way of life, which was built by the hard work and, for the most part, sensible social and political views of many thousands of immigrants before them.
If Harry and Meghan have something to contribute — and I fail to see what that might be — let them follow the same immigration procedures as everyone else. And do not, under any circumstances, spend a single one of my tax dollars on these freeloaders, who seem to have the uncanny ability to make normally sane people take leave of their senses.
Thomas Philip