
Re “
Even if we allow for the factual mistakes President Trump made in his speech Wednesday night, the most devastating takeaway was that the man read from a teleprompter without emotion. He did not appear to relate to or empathize with the American people.
Americans craved a little compassion and reassurance from their leader. They did not need to hear that it was a “foreign virus.”
Mr. Trump is incapable of compassion. Too bad for our Republic.
Merritt H. Cohen
Is the exemption of Britain from the travel ban due to President Trump’s admiration for Boris Johnson, his support for Brexit or, most important, his business ventures — i.e., hotels and golf course in Scotland and ties to British banks? Coronavirus will not be stopped from crossing the English Channel, and therefore the reason has to be embedded in the president’s self-interest and wedded to his animosity toward the European Union.
Gilbert Whisnant
Surely the most overworked phrase of the week is “out of an abundance of caution.” While the president exhorts the public to “Just stay calm. It will go away,” schools are closing, events are being canceled and businesses are asking employees to work remotely “out of an abundance of caution.”
This only serves to spotlight the absence of strong leadership and preparation from the Trump administration and the dearth of reliable information from our public health agencies, forcing community, business and school officials to make their own public health decisions. While the president peddles falsehoods about the availability of tests and misstates the details of his own policies in an Oval Office address, the rest of the country is piecing together the advice of local officials and the actual public health experts who have managed to make their voices heard.
We’re trying to do the best for students and employees, making up best practices as we go along — out of an abundance of caution.
Randy Brett
Re “
The proposal by the Trump administration to stimulate the economy by reducing the payroll tax may appear, at first blush, to be well intentioned. But the payroll tax is the funding mechanism for Social Security and Medicare. I suspect that this proposal is nothing more than another attempt by Republicans to chip away at these programs. If the administration is truly interested in assisting workers who are disadvantaged by the coronavirus outbreak, there surely are better ways to achieve that end.
Terry Freedman
Re “
Despite a lifetime of morally, ethically and legally questionable activities, President Trump has escaped mostly unscathed. He has survived numerous scandals, as well as national and international crises of his own making, not to mention the Mueller probe and, of course, impeachment. Could it be that this self-proclaimed germophobe, the Teflon Don, will finally be brought down by his avowed archenemy, a lowly virus?
Andrea Warren
Re “
As a first-grade teacher, I find it unwise to determine at this juncture that schools can remain open during the coronavirus crisis. Over the last few weeks, we have stepped up surface cleaning, started hand sanitizing as students enter the classroom and practiced hand washing technique.
Meanwhile, I’m still constantly reminding students to remove their hands from mouths, noses and one another. Six- and 7-year-olds do not practice social distancing. It’s laughable to imagine a primary classroom with students placed six feet apart.
The best news we’ve had since the outbreak is that children seem to tolerate the virus without serious illness. However, many of my students live with grandparents, or routinely interact with them as caregivers and chauffeurs.
Communities and districts need plans for providing meals and care for their students in need, should schools close. They also need plans for providing access to devices and internet for distance-learning purposes.
This pandemic is the first time we’ve had to grapple with the logistics of large-scale school closings, and we are not prepared.
Alison Medeiros
During the two days this week when in-person classes were canceled at Columbia University, I noticed students taking advantage of the warm weather to gather in large groups outside, where they traded hits off vape pens, sips from cans of hard seltzer and generally behaved in ways that seemed destined to do anything but stop the spread of a virus.
William deJong-Lambert
When Cambridge University in England closed in 1665 because of the bubonic plague, a young man named Isaac Newton 
Let us hope that the current situation leads one of today’s scholars to make a breakthrough that will help future generations.
Jay M. Pasachoff
“
In Mali, where an officer who received U.S. anti-terrorist training led a coup triggering ethnic and jihadist insurrections, about 20,000 U.N. peacekeeping and French regional forces have succeeded only in dispersing armed groups over a wider area.
U.S. training of corrupt and abusive Sahelian militaries and logistical and drone assistance to France’s counterinsurgency operations have unintentionally provoked and facilitated rebel and government killings of civilians.
Policymakers who view these insurrections through simplistic, charged labels like “terrorism” and “Islamic State and Qaeda affiliates” miss the local political energy behind them. At their core lies the absence of public services and protection, ethnic discrimination, corrupt and repressive militaries and a lack of economic opportunities for young people.
These insurrections will not be quelled until Sahelian governments are obliged (and helped) to undertake political and economic reforms instead of depending on illusory foreign military saviors.
Stephen R. Weissman