
LONDON — Prime Minister 
The vote, 340 to 263, came after a fierce debate in the House of Commons that demonstrated that 
It is only the first step for the legislation, which would nullify parts of a landmark agreement that Mr. Johnson struck with the European Union last fall. That deal paved the way for Britain to leave the bloc after 44 years.
Mr. Johnson, with an 80-seat majority, was never likely to lose this first vote. But the divisive debate sets in motion 
With further legislative hurdles to come, analysts said the danger was less a quick defeat than a gradual leaching away of support that could leave Mr. Johnson weakened at a time when his government is battling 
“If you put together concerns about the government’s handling of the virus, with concerns about the economy, and concerns about the effects on individual liberties of the lockdown, Boris Johnson is making a lot of people unhappy,” said Tim Bale, professor of politics at Queen Mary University of London.
Britain also faces other international repercussions, 
Mr. Johnson’s aggressive move to rewrite provisions of the treaty relating to Northern Ireland has drawn a torrent of criticism from prominent Conservative figures, including former Prime Minister David Cameron, who said on Monday he had “misgivings” about the government’s proposal.
“Passing an act of Parliament and then going on to break an international treaty obligation is the very, very last thing you should contemplate,” Mr. Cameron told reporters, becoming the latest of five former prime ministers — three of them Conservatives — to speak out against Mr. Johnson’s plan.
The government also lost the support of two former cabinet members — Sajid Javid, who was chancellor of the Exchequer until Mr. Johnson forced him out last February, and Geoffrey Cox, a former attorney general.
Mr. Cox said he would vote against the law because it would do “unconscionable” harm to Britain’s global standing. His defection was particularly noteworthy because Mr. Cox favored Brexit and was the government’s top legal adviser when Mr. Johnson negotiated 
In the heat of the debate, Ed Miliband, a former leader of the Labour Party, reminded Mr. Johnson that he had signed, promoted and ran his election campaign on the agreement he was now proposing to rewrite.
“What incompetence! What failure of governance!” Mr. Miliband bellowed, as Mr. Johnson shook his head in disgust. “And how dare he try and blame everyone else.”
Despite the boldface names lining up to oppose the law, there was no sign that Mr. Johnson planned to back down. He told Parliament the legislation was an “insurance policy” against a European Union that might interpret the withdrawal agreement in a way that could break up the United Kingdom.
Threatening to rip up an agreement with the European Union plays well with the hard-line Brexiteers in his party. And there are still three-and-a-half months before the Dec. 31 deadline for a trade deal with Brussels, which means Mr. Johnson could always compromise later.
Mr. Johnson pursued a similar strategy of brinkmanship this time last year, threatening to leave the European Union without a withdrawal agreement, which prompted 
The prime minister expelled 21 rebels for defying the government, including Conservative grandees like Kenneth Clarke, a former chancellor of the Exchequer, and Nicholas Soames, a grandson of Winston Churchill.
Mr. Johnson kept threatening a no-deal Brexit until October, when he met with Leo Varadkar, then the prime minister of Ireland, and suddenly cut 
It is that deal that Mr. Johnson now proposes to renege on, if Britain is unable to agree to long-term trade arrangements with the European Union. The government says the legislation is intended to provide a “safety net” for businesses in Northern Ireland, which send and receive goods from the rest of the United Kingdom.
Few analysts expected more than a small band of Conservative lawmakers to abstain or vote against the government on Monday. But more may vote for an amendment — to be introduced next week by a Conservative member, Bob Neill — that would block the government from using the provisions of the bill that would break the law by nullifying the so-called Northern Ireland protocol, without Parliament’s approval.
Even that rebellion seems likely to fall short, however, given the size of Mr. Johnson’s majority and the reluctance of Conservative lawmakers to fall out with a prime minister who delivered a landslide victory less than a year ago.
If the legislation gets through the House of Commons, it goes to the 
For all the fireworks, some analysts still said they believed Mr. Johnson would ultimately come to terms with Brussels. The prime minister’s threats to break off talks, breach international law or accept a no-deal Brexit are all intended, they said, to prepare the ground for a compromise.
“This is a signal to his Brexit ultras that he is playing hardball with the European Union, which will make it easier when he eventually has to make concessions to cut a deal,” Professor Bale said.
The risk for Mr. Johnson, analysts said, is that he could miscalculate the reaction from the European Union, which has so far been measured, or that his government no longer has the bandwidth to conclude a trade deal — a scenario that is not implausible given its growing urgency the virus.
“It is perfectly possible to slide into war,” Professor Bale said.