
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re covering takeaways from a long-awaited 
Russia has long tried to undermine Britain’s democracy and corrupt its politics, and British governments have looked the other way, a long-delayed report released on Tuesday said.
The report, by a parliamentary committee, examined 
According to the report, British intelligence agencies ignored threats from Russian interference that they should have seen coming. It was also difficult to establish which agency held responsibility for keeping elections safe.
The report did not show that Russia had swayed the referendum on Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union. But it said that the government had not tried hard enough to look into it.
There were earlier signs: In 2014, Russia tried to interfere in a referendum in which Scotland opted to remain part of the United Kingdom.
Russian money, not just disinformation, plays a role. Britain has welcomed oligarchs and allowed them to cycle cash through “Londongrad,” as the capital has been dubbed.
The report’s release was delayed until after a general election in December in which Prime Minister Boris Johnson won a big majority.
The E.U.’s landmark spending deal, a package worth 750 billion euros to rescue the bloc’s economies, sent a strong signal of solidarity even as it exposed new fault lines.
But as the dust settled after days of negotiations, 
President Trump departed from his rosy projections about the coronavirus on Tuesday, 
“It will probably, unfortunately, get worse before it gets better,” Mr. Trump said at the White House. “Something I don’t like saying about things, but that’s the way it is.”
It came as the U.S. neared four million cases and the C.D.C. 
Here are our 
Chinese officials are hailing a visit by experts from the World Health Organization to investigate the source of the coronavirus as evidence that China is a responsible global power. But
Blood clotting problems
Two decades after the Taliban banished women to their homes, the rise of a generation of educated, professional Afghan women is an undeniable sign of change. But the gains remain fragile, and every step is a battle.
Our reporter followed two 
In countries with national health systems that are already doing mass-scale testing, epidemiologists say the apps can be helpful. South Korea, for instance, has used apps to make sure people under quarantine orders stay in their assigned locations.
Iceland’s app allows people who test positive for the virus to share their recent locations with health officials, making it easier to notify people who may have crossed paths with them. In countries with low rates of virus testing, the apps may not be very useful. As one German health official put it to me last week, “apps are not a vaccine.”
It’s troubling that 
Denmark, Germany, Switzerland, Latvia and other countries recently introduced virus-tracing apps based on software from Apple and Google. The government apps are designed for maximum privacy. For instance, they use Bluetooth signals, not location tracking, to detect app users who come into close contact.
Even so, 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time. 
— Melina