
Want to get The Morning by email? 
More than four years after Britain voted to leave the European Union, new travel and trade rules will go into effect tomorrow, concluding a saga that has divided Britons and dominated British politics.
The two sides 
I talked to Mark Landler, The Times’s London bureau chief, about 
MARK: The purpose of the 1,200-page trade deal between Britain and the E.U. was to avoid very disruptive changes, such as tariffs and quotas. But there will be an array of other bureaucratic requirements that did not exist before Jan. 1.
People won’t see a sudden shift in the price of fresh fruit and vegetables in London supermarkets. But it’ll have an impact on Britons who, for example, want to bring their dog on vacation to the continent or who want to get a job somewhere in the E.U.
Britain 
Something else, which may take a little bit longer to play out, is this idea of separatism and independence. Scotland, for example, was against Brexit, and it could fuel a new push to break off from the rest of Britain.
A lot of stuff still needs to be negotiated. A major driving force of the British economy is the services sector, including legal, financial, consulting and other services. Virtually none of that is covered yet in the trade agreement.
Without it, the negotiations for the trade deal 
One of the driving arguments in favor of Brexit was throwing off the shackles of the E.U., so that Britain would become this agile, dynamic, independent economy that could strike deals with everyone in the world. But rising protectionism and populism have made making free-trade agreements harder. The “global Britain” arguments looked more valid in May 2016 than in January 2021. In a way, 
With the new, more contagious variant of the coronavirus detected in Colorado and California, scientists fear it 
Officials from Operation Warp Speed, the federal effort to accelerate vaccine development and distribution, said that the U.S. vaccination campaign is 
Around 2.6 million Americans have received their first dose, the C.D.C. said, far short of the goal of 20 million by the end of 2020.
The British government will use its initial vaccine supply to 
China’s government said that 
Mitch McConnell, the Senate majority leader, said there was “
Senator Josh Hawley, Republican of Missouri, 
Biden will nominate two former Obama administration officials 
Since the start of early voting on Dec. 14, more than 2.5 million Georgians 
New York is set to open its grand expansion of Penn Station, the Moynihan Train Hall, on Friday. The new station looks nothing like its dingy, subterranean cousin: It has an acre of glass that lets the sun pour down and 
A Minneapolis officer 
Critics have 
An attack on an airport in Yemen 
Chinese and E.U. 
Morning Reads
Subscriber support helped make Times journalism possible this year. If you’re not already a subscriber, 
Beyoncé’s BeyHive. The BTS Army. Lady Gaga’s Little Monsters.
In 2020, loving a singer doesn’t just mean liking the music. It means tracking your favorite artist’s streaming statistics with the zeal of die-hard sports fans. It means organizing online with other fans to boost album sales. It even means raising 
Over the past decade, social media has helped turn fandom into a 24-hour job, 
That makes it a lot more personal. “You see yourself in your favorite artists — you associate with them, whether it’s just the music or it’s their personality,” one Lady Gaga fan told The Times. “So when someone insults your favorite artist, you take that as a personal insult, and then you find yourself spending hours trying to convince someone in China that ‘Born This Way’ was her best album.”
To understand how pop music fandom got here, 
Pull out all the stops for New Year’s Eve with this 
The ball will still drop tonight, but for the first time in decades, 
Here is how other cities 
Here are 
The pangram from yesterday’s Spelling Bee was 
Here’s 
P.S. In case you missed it, yesterday’s newsletter featured a 2020 news quiz, put together by the Morning team. 
You can see 
Today, “