
Finally, after 1,317 days of confusion, rancor and endless votes in Parliament, it was time for Brexit. On Wednesday, teary members of the European Parliament 
“A new dawn for Europe,” 
“This is the moment when the dawn breaks,” came Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s echo from across the newly raised dividing line.
It was left to the dispassionate BBC to cut short the bathos: “Brexit is far from ‘done,’” the Beeb coldly said, before 
Britain will now also reach across the Atlantic to what President Trump has held out as a “very big trade deal, bigger than we’ve ever had with the U.K.,” which Mr. Johnson has touted as a benefit of quitting the E.U. That, too, could prove a disappointment. A former British ambassador to Washington, 
In the same European Parliament session at which Ursula von der Leyen, the president of the E.U. Commission, 
Still, the fact was that after 47 years in the E.U., Britain was officially out, and there was no going back, at least not in the foreseeable future. For many Britons, the long and bitter debate had been less about economics and politics than about identity. Those who fought to leave the E.U. fought for what they saw as lost sovereignty, often tinged with a sense of lost empire; those who fought to stay saw the Union as post-imperial Britain’s place in the future, joined with the rest of Europe in values, standards and security. In the end, after nearly three years of uncertainty and bitterness, voters elected Mr. Johnson out of exhaustion, to get it over with, not because they had reached agreement.
Headlines reflected the divide. Pro-Brexit tabloids joined in gleeful celebration: “OUR TIME HAS COME,” proclaimed The Sun, offering a “free giant Brexit poster”; “YES, WE DID IT!” cheered The Daily Express in what it described as a historic edition; “Free and independent once more after 47 years,” declared The Daily Mail over a photograph of the white cliffs of Dover. Those same cliffs featured on the cover of The Guardian, a strong advocate of staying in the E.U., over a crumbling sand castle surmounted by a tiny British flag. The headline: “Small island.”
Trying to reconcile these divergent worldviews will be the main task of coming years, as Mr. Johnson appeared to recognize when he declared in a 
For the moment, what “forward” meant remained unclear. For at least the coming years not much would change in economic, trade and practical terms, but many potential battles loomed over the shape of the future relationship with Europe, America and the rest of the world.
Perhaps in paraphrasing Winston Churchill on whether the moment was an end or a beginning, Mr. Johnson would have done better to use his predecessor’s entire quote, that one about a military campaign 78 years ago: “