
The Conservative Party’s victory in December’s general election opened the way for Britain to finally make good on its plans to leave the European Union. Brexit day is slated for Jan. 31.
That doesn’t mean everything will change overnight: There will be a standstill period, as Britain and the European Union work out the final details before the end of 2020.
Borders and how travelers will cross them are some of the biggest issues. With Britain in the European Union, people and goods have been able to go from one country to another seamlessly without going through passport or customs control. One sticking point has been how to deal with the border between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland, which will remain a member of the European Union.
While Brexit’s effect on Britain’s economy and politics is uncertain, there is more clarity for travelers. Here’s what you need to know if you are planning to travel to Britain and the European Union in the post-Brexit world.
It shouldn’t be.
For years, flights between the United States and Britain have operated under what is known as an E open skies agreement between the United States and the European Union, which allowed airlines from those two places access to each other’s markets. Ahead of its exit, Britain has set up bilateral open-skies agreements with countries, including the United States, Iceland, Switzerland, Morocco and Albania. It is in the process of setting up similar treaties with other countries.
“The U.K. is taking all the steps necessary and is rolling out the welcome mat,” said Ninan Chacko, a former chief executive at the Travel Leaders Group, which represents 50,000 travel agents in North America.
If Americans travel to Britain then fly to a European Union country, they will have to go through customs and immigration in both Britain and that country, as before.
The changes will be more apparent to British and European Union nationals, who have been able to move between countries using just a national ID card. When traveling between Britain and the European Union they must use a passport. After Dec. 31, 2020, European Union citizens will not be allowed to use national cards to enter Britain.
The European Commission proposed that British nationals be allowed to travel to the European Union for short stays of up to 90 days in a 180-day period, if Britain allows European Union citizens the same privilege. This 90-day period will be marked with a stamp in passports.
We picked destinations to inspire you, delight you and motivate you to explore the world.
The British government has said that trains, ferries, cruises, and bus and coach services between Britain and the European Union will run without changes after Brexit. Passengers already undergo passport and ID checks before departing on the Eurostar train, and those will continue. Travelers who need visas should continue to make sure they have them.
The European Union is known for its traveler-friendly approach to delayed and canceled flights. Flight Compensation Regulation 261/2004 offers all travelers to and from European Union countries, regardless of nationality, reimbursement in the event of a flight delay, denied boarding or cancellation. That is not expected to change with Brexit.
“We do not anticipate that Brexit will impact travelers’ protections under EC 261, even if they are flying on a U.K. airline,” said Christian Nielsen, Chief Legal Officer at 
Americans traveling to Britain do not need visas and that is not expected to change after Brexit. They do need a passport that is valid for the duration of the trip. If they are going from Britain to a country in the Schengen area (a group of 26 European countries that allow free passage across their borders) they need a passport that is
After January 2021, as part of a new security system intended to screen visa-free travelers, Americans will be required to register with the European Travel Information and Authorization System. (Britons and people from other countries will also need to apply to E.T.I.A.S.) Getting the authorization involves registering online and paying a small fee. The E.T.I.A.S. requirement happens to coincide with Brexit but the two are not related.
For Americans traveling to a European Union country, most likely, simply because British citizens will now be standing in the passport control and customs lines with them.
Right now, when arriving in Barcelona, for example, non-European Union citizens stand in one line and European Union travelers stand in another. With Brexit, the British will move to the non-European Union line, which could slow things down.
“Say a flight to Berlin has 150 U.K. citizens, 50 German citizens and 20 citizens from the U.S., Canada, Japan or wherever, the non-European Economic Area line will normally have 20 people in it, but now it will probably have 170 people in it,” said Tom Jenkins, chief executive of the European Tourism Association.
But for travel to Britain, Mr. Chacko of Travel Leaders Group said things shouldn’t change. Earlier this year, ePassport kiosks were introduced in at least 16 air and rail terminals in Britain, including Heathrow. The kiosks allow travelers from Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, Singapore, South Korea and the United States to stand in the same line as European Union citizens, keeping the lines moving.
The more than three year battle to implement Brexit has been bad for the British economy, but good for international travelers.
The value of the pound has fallen to about $1.30 to the dollar, down from about $1.50 to the dollar in 2016. That has made it cheaper for Americans to travel to Britain, and they’ve been taking advantage of that fact. In the first four months of 2019, bookings to Britain from the United States, China and Canada were up. In 2018, London welcomed 19.1 million international visitors, with record numbers from the United States and China, said Laura Citron, chief executive of London and Partners, the mayor’s official promotional agency for London.
“Looking closely at travel agent bookings from Forward Keys, a travel analytics firm, for October to December, we can see bookings from the U.S. and Canada are up by 5 percent,” Ms. Citron said.
Additionally, new nonstop flights from United States cities to Britain, like British Airways’ Charleston, S.C., to London flight and American Airlines’ Phoenix to London flight have also made Britain an appealing destination for American travelers.
Although it will be cheaper for Americans to travel to Britain because of the weaker pound and strong dollar, there might be more domestic competition for hotels, raising prices for rooms.
“Outbound business from Britain is down — why is that important to Americans? Because a lot of British people are staying within Britain during their holidays, meaning they are competing for available hotel rooms, excursions and dining reservations,” said Gavin Tollman, chief executive of Trafalgar, a tour operator based in Britain.