
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the 
Good morning.
We’re looking ahead to 
European legislators on Wednesday approved the terms of Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union. It will formally take place on Friday at midnight, Brussels time, bringing three and a half years of confusion and political fighting to an end.
But 
And
A World Health Organization committee plans to meet in Geneva today — for the second time in a week — to decide whether the Wuhan coronavirus epidemic is a global health emergency. 
The death toll in China rose overnight to 170, up from 132, the government said this morning. Infections worldwide jumped to 7,711 from about 6,000 on Wednesday, according to the W.H.O. and Chinese officials.
The Palestinian leadership largely rejected the Israel-friendly Mideast peace plan that President Trump announced on Tuesday, 
They could choose to push back against it — perhaps by unleashing violence or walking away from the security cooperation that has long helped protect Israelis from terrorism. But that’s unlikely if Mahmoud Abbas, the octogenarian president of the Palestinian Authority, decides to prioritize staying in power.
A safer option for Mr. Abbas, our correspondents say, would be trying to weather the storm and hoping that Mr. Trump or Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel is defeated in upcoming elections.
From the Chinese government’s perspective, Zulhumar Isaac, above, a Uighur woman from the far-western Xinjiang region, grew up in a model ethnic-minority family: Her mother was a Communist Party cadre, and her father worked at a newspaper that toed the party line.
But when President Xi Jinping’s government began cracking down on Uighurs, even her parents were detained. Our writer spent nearly a year documenting 
They’re 
Some protesters held a placard that read: “Dear Hindus, We rejected an Islamic state in 1947. Now it’s your turn to reject a Hindu state. Sincerely, Secular India.” That really spoke to me because 1947 was the partition, when Hindus in Pakistan decided to stay or flee to India, and Muslims in India had a similar choice.
India chose secularism in 1947. It was majority Hindu and said its strength was its diversity, and that it would embrace Christians and Muslims and Sikhs just as much as its Hindu citizens. 
Over all, India’s Muslim community has not been well organized in recent decades, but 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Sofia and Mike