
DUBLIN — This month, as Arctic winds have swept down through Britain, Brexit has led the government of Prime Minister Theresa May into a blizzard of humiliations.
It is two weeks since the Northern Irish Democratic Unionist Party, which is propping up Mrs. May’s minority government, made a show of her. She was in Brussels for a working lunch, about to smile her way through the carefully choreographed announcement of a deal that guaranteed “regulatory alignment” between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland.
But Mrs. May was called offstage to take a call from the leader of the D.U.P., Arlene Foster, who told her that the party would not tolerate a deal that distinguished Northern Ireland from the rest of Britain. Ms. Foster’s concern was that the deal would effectively move the border to the Irish Sea, creating the illusion that Ireland was united and separate from “the mainland.” That would be anathema to unionists, for whom the border that winds across the island of Ireland is the last frontier of the empire. (The D.U.P. has loved the way that Brexit, with its strutting nationalism, has brought out in the rest of the Britain the Union Jacks that festoon the parts of Northern Ireland that are loyal to the queen.)
Four intense days after the D.U.P.’s intervention, the European Union and Britain reached a new deal that weakened the British Brexiters’ position, strengthened that of the Irish government and had the support of the rest of the bloc. This time it spelled out that there would be “full alignment” between Britain and Ireland in relation to the rules of the single market and the customs union; and that Northern Ireland’s peace deal, known as the Good Friday Agreement, would be honored.
But Brexit Secretary David Davis promptly and breezily confided on a British television show that this hard-won deal was “much more a statement of intent than it was a legally enforceable thing.”
The European Union’s chief negotiator, Michel Barnier, shot back that there would be no final deal unless Britain respected the agreements it had made. Rubbing it in, the 
At a working dinner in Brussels on Thursday night, Mrs. May had to tolerate being slapped on the wrist by one European leader after another: All agreements entered into in the first phase, which covers financial arrangements, the Irish border and citizens’ rights, were to be “
The Brexit that is taking shape around the hapless Mrs. May is not the one hard-line Brexiters promised when they vowed to “take back control.” Locking the door on migrants and free trade with purveyors of chlorinated chickens look increasingly unlikely. To avoid making a special case of Northern Ireland, Britain has been forced already to concede a “soft Brexit.” In effect, it is going to be stuck with European Union rules — it just won’t have any say in making them.
A 
But there has been nothing clear about this government’s strategies for leaving the European Union. It may not even have any. Earlier in this month of mortification, Mr. Davis was forced to admit that 
Faced now with the requirement of stating its plans in language capable of being turned into laws and protocols, the government looks more and more foolish. Mrs. May’s attempts to stride purposefully on the international stage look increasingly like someone floundering, lost, through the snow.
There were a few emollient words for the prime minister before she was sent home across the English Channel on Thursday, but they just sounded patronizing. Any embarrassment over a debacle authored entirely by Britain is looked upon coldly. If the country makes a fool of itself, all the better — an unedifying spectacle is sure to discourage other restless member states down the road.
After their summit, 
If Mrs. May and her blustering crew represent the best of British diplomacy, then post-Brexit Britain will be a sorry state.