
LONDON — The proposition that Britain could have its cake and eat it during 
And this was not Britain’s first capitulation over 
What Mr. Johnson was saying was that Britain could secure the economic benefits of membership in the European Union without paying a penalty or being subject to its rules, particularly on the free movement of labor within the bloc.
On Wednesday, Britain 
The unofficial offer, which covers commitments made while a member of the club, roughly doubles Britain’s 
For months, supporters of the withdrawal, known as Brexit, have rejected the idea of paying a substantial exit bill to honor commitments. Some, like the Euroskeptic lawmaker John Redwood has insisted that Britain owed nothing at all.
Yet, with time running out for Britain before it departs in March 2019, such pledges have collided, brutally, with reality.
Earlier this year, Britain’s chief Brexit negotiator, David Davis, told Parliament he could achieve a trade deal with the European Union that provided the “
In the meantime, other reversals are quietly underway. Lawmakers were initially told that European Union law would cease to apply to Britain in March 2019, when it leaves. Now, the government has accepted that during the sort of “standstill” transition that Britain badly wants, European rules — including new ones — will apply to Britain, as will judgments of the European Court of Justice.
During this standstill transition — which Mrs. May suggests could be two years — Britain will also have to accept the free movement of European citizens and will not be able to control migration from the Continent — even though immigration was perhaps the argument that proved decisive in the referendum.
Britain’s new pragmatism stands in contrast to some early remarks by Prime Minister Theresa May, who insisted that no deal with the European Union was better than a bad one, implying that she was ready to walk away from the table.
But the reality, analysts and business leaders have been saying with increasing emphasis, is that Mrs. May desperately needs to show progress on a reasonable departure plan, not a “cliff edge” exit that would potentially throw the economy into chaos. Business leaders have warned repeatedly that they will be forced to begin shifting operations out of Britain in the new year if nothing further is accomplished.
In London, where the government made no official comment, the about-face was widely criticized. A Labour Party lawmaker, Chris Leslie, said that the offer would cost 1,000 pounds for every Briton, a far cry from the 
Supporters of the government argue that some of the European Union’s initial demands for an exit payment were higher than those now being discussed, and that after it withdraws, Britain will not make its regular contributions of around $11 billion a year.
In reality, Britain already had a weak hand, which has been made worse by the fact that Mrs. May, who argued tepidly to remain in the European Union during the 2016 referendum, has had to placate her more ideologically pro-Brexit colleagues. They fretted about any delay to Britain’s departure, so in March Mrs. May triggered the exit procedure, before Britain was fully prepared, by invoking Article 50 of the European Union’s treaty, which put negotiations under a two-year deadline.
It hardly helped that Mrs. May then called a general election during which she lost valuable negotiating time and sacrificed her parliamentary majority, and with it her authority — allowing her cabinet to go to war over Brexit strategy.
In the meantime, economic signals have grown increasingly alarming. Despite referendum promises of a rosy future, Britain’s economy has sunk from being the fastest-growing among developed nations to the slowest. Investment in critical sectors like the auto industry has contracted sharply.
Inflation has spiked due a significant fall in the value of the pound sterling since the referendum, putting a squeeze on living standards. Consumer spending is down, with car sales falling for seven consecutive months. According to some estimates, living standards will not return to their 2008 values until 2022 at the earliest.
The gloom was compounded when Britain recently lost the right to host two European Union agencies, for medicine and finance, which will relocate to the Continent.
Mrs. May needs to get agreement on starting talks future trade arrangements at a meeting of European leaders in mid-December. That may be possible given her new offer on the divorce, providing that a way forward can be found on the other tricky issue, the border with Ireland.
Even then, Britain is unlikely to achieve the ambitious trade deal with the bloc that it wants, analysts say.
“Although the current focus is on the separation, the next phase of the talks could prove much harder and more acrimonious,” wrote Charles Grant, director of the Center for European Reform, a research institute, in an analysis. “E.U. negotiators think the British government is deluded about the kind of future relationship it can achieve.”
Somewhat surprisingly, the growing cost of Brexit (£3 billion has been allocated for preparations, to add to the £700 million already spent) has proved less problematic among Mrs. May’s Conservatives, or Tories, than some expected.
The small band of pro-European Tories want to keep good relations with the European Union, and therefore think that the exit bill is justified.
By contrast, Brexit enthusiasts know that, however happy they would be to crash out of the bloc without a deal, that prospect would spook business and could prompt a damaging downturn. That, in turn, might provoke a shift in public opinion against Brexit, which could endanger support for the departure before it is completed.
So, ardent supporters of Brexit on Wednesday were putting their best gloss on the multibillion euro divorce settlement they neglected to mention to voters in 2016.
One of those, the former Conservative Party leader and prominent pro-Brexit campaigner, Iain Duncan Smith, told the BBC that Britain is, “getting a bargain just by leaving the E.U.” That, analysts were quick to note, was a far cry from previous promises.