
LONDON — Facebook and Twitter have promised to cooperate with another set of investigations into suspicions of Russian meddling in elections — this time in Britain, over the bitterly divisive referendum last year in which the country voted to leave the European Union.
More than 150,000 Russian-language Twitter accounts posted tens of thousands of messages in English urging support for withdrawal, known as Brexit, in the days before the vote on June 23, 
In 
The committee chairman, Damian Collins, a Conservative lawmaker who leads the House of Commons Digital, Culture, Media and Sport Select Committee, 
Mr. Collins told the BBC that the committee was investigating whether there was “systematic distribution of false news by, particularly Russian-backed, organizations,” and that he hoped the release of the information would give British lawmakers “a better chance to understand the scale of Russian-backed operations during the referendum.”
“We have a right to know what was going on,” Mr. Collins said. “Some of the activity took place directly before the referendum and certainly during the campaign — that’s why I wrote to Mark Zuckerberg asking him that Facebook should give us the information about Russian-backed activity on their platform.”
Earlier this month, Britain’s prime minister, Theresa May, accused Russia of meddling in Western elections and planting fake stories in the media to “weaponize information” and sow discord. She did not make specific assertions in relation to British elections, however, or to the Brexit referendum, the outcome of which her government is in the process of implementing.
The “leave” side received 52 percent of ballots cast in the referendum, a winning margin of about 1.3 million votes.
Those inclined to suspect Russian interference in the campaign say that the European Union’s 
An opposition lawmaker and former minister, Ben Bradshaw, called last month for a British government investigation into claims of Russian interference, adding that 
That followed the publication of investigative reports into the financing of the campaign by the 
In Facebook’s letter to Mr. Collins, Simon Milner, a policy director at the company, 
“Given that your letter is about the same issue, we will share our response to the Electoral Commission with you,” Mr. Milner wrote.
The Electoral Commission said it was not conducting a specific inquiry into Russian involvement in the Brexit referendum but was 
It is investigating Mr. Banks’s donations, and whether Vote Leave, the official campaign to quit the bloc, 