
Critical agencies that oversee Europe’s banks and pharmaceutical sector will move from London to cities on the Continent, political leaders in Brussels decided Monday, potentially ominous harbingers of how Britain’s impending exit from the European Union could diminish the country’s economic clout.
The 
Amsterdam will be the new location of the European Medicines Agency
The departure of the European Medicines Agency, Europe’s equivalent of the Food and Drug Administration in the United States, is a blow to the prestige of Britain’s pharmaceutical industry, an important pillar of the economy and an example of the country’s bona fides in scientific research and development.
The European Banking Authority has strong symbolic value among cities jostling to become Continental Europe’s financial capital. Its departure serves as a warning of the consequences of Brexit for London, currently the banking capital of Europe, and illustrates the fierce competition from other capitals for the spoils.
“There is no upside for the City of London” from Brexit, said Nicolas Véron, a senior fellow at Bruegel, a research organization in Brussels. “It will lose business, not gain.”
From Britain’s point of view, the 
Its departure also underscores continuing questions about how British pharmaceutical companies will be regulated after the country’s withdrawal from the bloc, known as Brexit, a shift scheduled for March 2019.
The sector is an important one, and enjoys substantially more public support among Britons than finance, the image of which has been tarnished in recent years.
Charles Tannock, a Conservative Party lawmaker in the European Parliament, described the relocation of the medicines agency on Twitter as a “huge loss to UK pharma,” adding that he was “heart broken” to lose the organization.
“The relocation of the E.M.A. away from London will be a bitter pill to swallow,” added Rory Palmer, the health policy spokesman for the opposition Labour Party’s lawmakers in the European Parliament. “Our economy will suffer. Our health sector will suffer. Our successful pharmaceutical industry will suffer.
“But most of all, patients will suffer, from delays and the potential loss of access to medicines and research, if we are to crash out of the E.U.,” Mr. Palmer said in a statement, referring to the possibility that Britain might quit the bloc without an agreement to stay within European regulatory structures.
Before the discussion on relocation, Donald Tusk, the president of the European Council, wished all the candidates to host the agencies luck but added on Twitter: “Whatever the outcome, the real winner of today’s vote is EU27. Organized and getting ready for #Brexit.”
Compared with the European Medicines Agency, the banking authority is a minnow in size, with only about 150 employees.
The decision to move the European Banking Authority, though, underlines the risks facing London’s lucrative financial industry from Brexit. The European Central Bank has suggested it might impose extra regulations on eurozone banks operating in London, in effect pressuring them to move to the Continent.
After Britain’s exit from the European Union, for example, large numbers of transactions in euros would be taking place outside the reach of European regulators. London dominates currency and derivatives trading in Europe.
In a measure of the prestige attached to the competition to be the new home of the banking authority, Emmanuel Macron, the French president, lent his name to Paris’s campaign. 
The decision was a blow to Frankfurt, which is probably a more important financial center and is the home to the European Central Bank, but lacks Paris’s charm or breadth of cultural and entertainment opportunities.
Numerous big banks are already expanding on the Continent. Goldman Sachs will add employees in both Frankfurt and Paris, Lloyd Blankfein, the chairman of the investment bank, said in an interview with French newspaper Le Figaro published Sunday.
Mr. Blankfein 
The Goldman Sachs executive 