
LONDON — As 
The 
In other words, the vote by young Britons on Thursday had a whiff of payback.
“I was so angry about Brexit that I buried my head in a pillow and screamed,” said Louise Traynor, 24, a waitress in the southwestern district of Battersea in London, who had never voted before Thursday.
Shaking her head in frustration, Ms. Traynor said she had been angry at herself because she hadn’t bothered to vote the first time around. “I was stupid enough to think that the country had some sense,” she said.
The Brexit referendum, Ms. Traynor said, could lead to closed borders, which threatened to tear her long-term Spanish boyfriend away from her, and her away from the group of European friends she had made while working at a tapas restaurant.
On Friday morning, she said, much of the anxiety she had felt about her future was replaced with excitement when she realized that 
Jeremy Corbyn’s Labour 
Ms. Traynor said that Mr. Corbyn’s campaign had “injected energy” into what otherwise seemed like a stale election that would bring more “doom.”
“Does Theresa May care that I’ve been on minimum wage for three years and I’m still paying my student debt?” she asked. “No, she doesn’t. All she cares about is Brexit and getting her deal.”
Owen Jones, an author and Labour campaigner, 
He added, “Our young have suffered disproportionately these past few years: student debt, a housing crisis, a lack of secure jobs, falling wages, cuts to social security.”
Many young Britons felt compelled to vote after the Brexit decision, because of austerity budgets and what they saw as the establishment’s tendency to serve the interests of the rich. This year saw a spike in young people registering to vote — 
The turnout in 
transcript
Theresa May lost Britain’s elections on Thursday but her opponent Jeremy Corbyn didn’t win. That’s a recipe for chaos. Because what it means is that no single party won an outright majority. May had a majority in parliament. But she wanted an even greater majority. So she took a big risk and called a snap election three years early. She was expected to win at least 50 seats. She ended up losing 12. The humiliating defeat means she no longer has the momentum to negotiate a strong exit from the E.U. It also means she no longer even has a majority to push other parts of her agenda. So what happened? The U.K. saw its largest turnout in 25 years, over 1.5M people registered to vote just in the month leading up to the election. The biggest chunk of those were young people. After Brexit, many doubted younger voters would come out this time around. But the apathy turned into action for the 2017 general election. Jeremy Corbyn saw a significant increase for Labour (the biggest since 1997 when Tony Blair won). Key districts flipped or gained significant ground. Wales, university towns like Sheffield and Manchester, and areas with pro-Europe voters, like London. The U.K. moved back towards a distinctly two-party system. So what’s next? May is still the Prime Minister, but her position has become precarious. In order to create a majority, she’s trying to form a government with the Democratic Unionist Party of Northern Ireland, an extremely socially conservative party that favors Brexit, but wants to maintain free trade agreements with Europe. The disarray in Britain gives the E.U. new leverage over Brexit. The Brexit negotiation table has turned. After Macron’s win in France, the E.U. looks less under threat as it did six months ago. Ten days before negotiations are set to start, the conversation has changed. May’s “Hard Brexit” is now likely to be a lot softer.
Shona Macdonald, 52, a poll clerk in Nottingham, north of London, told The Times that “It was incredible to see so many students voting. The youth vote galvanized by Jeremy Corbyn was real.”
There were doubts that younger voters would cast their ballots for Mr. Corbyn, who had toured the country, attracting crowds of all ages. His campaign was even compared to Bernie Sanders’s American presidential race. In 
The payoff was evident in Battersea, where Labour seized the Conservative seat.
“Representatives from the Labour Party knocked on our doors and gathered us in groups, asking us about our problems and talking to us about solutions,” said Jessie Cox, a 21-year-old student. “They gave us a reason to vote.”
Jennifer Hudson, a senior lecturer in politics at University College London, said the effectiveness of Mr. Corbyn’s campaign could be seen in a picture of him with young supporters, cheek to cheek.
“I thought: ‘We will never see Theresa May like that with her supporters,’” Ms. Hudson said. “He has managed to create a human connection with his voters.”
Even when members of Mr. Corbyn’s own party declared him unfit to lead, he continued to focus on young voters, including sitting for an interview with some of the country’s top grime music stars that kick-started the grass-roots campaign group “Grime4Corbyn,” which encouraged young people to register to vote.
Analysts say that the part of 
Results and analysis from the British general election.
On Friday, the mood in Battersea was celebratory, though Labour did not win an overt victory. Many youths said they had attended election parties until the early hours of the morning and had skipped work.
“We may still be far from the final result that we wanted, but this feels like progress, and hopefully, it gives out a message to the pompous Tories that they can’t make bad decisions on our behalf,” said Luke Rossi, 25, a musician who had voted for the first time.
In Battersea Park, students ages 19 to 21 were debating possible political outcomes of the election aftermath. All said they hoped Mrs. May would be removed as leader of her party.
“She’s an embarrassment to the country,” said Fiona Barry, 20, a student at Queen Mary University in London. “England deserves so much better than that.”
That sentiment was not shared by all younger voters. “I like some of Corbyn’s policies, but he’s just not fit to be prime minister,” Aaron Neil, 23, of Dalston in east London, said before the election. “We need a strong leader and party to get us through Brexit negotiations and make sure the economy doesn’t collapse.”
For now, Mrs. May still leads, but precariously. The election results hammered the pound — it sank as much as 2 percent against the dollar — and plunged the country into uncertainty days before Brexit talks were to begin.
In her statement on Friday, Mrs. May vowed, “I will now form a government, a government that can provide certainty and lead Britain forward at this critical time for our country.”
She 