
This was the week in which Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain was supposed to wrap up a draft deal on several key issues with the European Union, clearing the way for the next stage of the negotiations. The most difficult of these issues were supposed to be the size of Britain’s “divorce check” — its outstanding financial commitments to the European Union — and the rights of European citizens living in Britain.
But once again things went awry, in a way few had anticipated, and because of an issue thought to be the least contentious: the status of the 
Ireland, which will remain in the European Union and so has a veto over any deal, wants the border, once a major source of sectarian tension, to remain open, even though Northern Ireland will exit the Union with Britain. To secure Dublin’s support, Mrs. May was reported to have agreed that there would be “regulatory alignment” to make sure the border stays open.
To hard-line unionists, whose central tenet is to be part of the United Kingdom, any talk of a special status for Northern Ireland smacked of separating them economically and politically from Britain and pushing them toward the Republic of Ireland. So on hearing of Mrs. May’s proposal, the Democratic Unionist Party, on which Mrs. May depends for her majority in Parliament, said “no deal.” To compound the problem, hard-core Brexiteers in her Conservative Party rallied behind the D.U.P. stance, while anti-Brexit leaders in Scotland and the mayor of London, areas where a majority oppose leaving the Union, declared that if Northern Ireland were to get special access to Europe, they wanted the same.
Unless Britain can get a draft past the European Union summit next week, chances fade for a trade deal by March 2019, the deadline for the Brexit process. No doubt diplomats will work overtime to avoid that. But even if they get past this hurdle, the Europeans are bound to question whether the government is capable of delivering on their pledges and advancing to the next and more complicated task of shaping a new trade relationship.