
LONDON — As he watched Prime Minister Theresa May rise from her seat to brief a crammed House of Commons about the start of the “Brexit” process, Stephen Castle experienced what might be called déjà vu — had that not been too European a term for such a Euroskeptic occasion.
A quarter of a century earlier Mr. Castle was in the same green-bench chamber when another Conservative prime minister, Margaret Thatcher, declared “No, no, no” to further integration with Europe. She was promptly ousted by her own party because her colleagues feared she was out of touch with the public mood on Europe and other issues.
Mrs. Thatcher’s removal was ruthless — she never lost a general election — but then Britain’s Parliament has for centuries been a highly adversarial place. When in full cry it is akin to the bear pits and bare-knuckled boxing rings that were a feature of London in the Victorian Era when the iconic modern building was raised upon a site associated with the business of establishing consent between governor and governed for nearly a millennium.
Although other issues arouse strong passions at Westminster, none matches those stirred up by the relationship between Britain and Europe.
So Theresa May’s declaration on March 29 that Britain had formally begun the process of leaving the European Union was for Mr. Castle, a Times reporter based in London, the final culmination of a long drawn-out drama.
“The issue of Europe has in one way or another destroyed every other Conservative prime minister since Margaret Thatcher,” said Mr. Castle. “To me it seems like the party has been fighting about this for a quarter of a century and this was the culmination.”
But the two historic moments illustrate the very different kinds of parliamentary drama that the British system produces.
Mrs. Thatcher’s downfall was a surprise, said Mr. Castle, a politically fatal blow delivered by her seemingly unassuming deputy prime minister Geoffrey Howe, who used rhetoric no more incendiary than mildly amusing cricketing metaphors.
“The Thatcher moment was more of a personal drama,” Mr. Castle recalled. “Geoffrey Howe had this very downbeat, deadpan delivery. He spoke in a very civilized manner. One of his opponents once joked that being attacked by him was like being savaged by a dead sheep. But he then produced this one speech that was absolutely devastating, and it drew audible gasps of shock and surprise.”
By contrast, he said, Theresa May’s moment of saying no to Europe “was not a surprise — everyone knew it was coming. But it was a national occasion.”
“It has got to be classified as a historic moment,” he said. “For four decades, Britain has been integrating more and more with its neighbors in Europe, and this was a sudden jolt; it was a sudden departure. So this has to be one of the biggest decisions in British history since the Second World War.”
Interviewed as part of the new Times video interactive series “I Was There,” Mr. Castle was asked by one Facebook Live commenter, Kitti Rouk, if Britain was being selfish by leaving Europe.
Brexit supporters, said Mr. Castle, “would argue that actually it is going to be doing the European Union a favor, because this is going to regenerate democracy in Europe.” Pro-Europeans, however, believe that Brexit will damage both Britain and Europe.
“This is one of the questions that actually we will only find out in due course, whether this galvanizes Europe to stay together and to carry on the path it was, or whether it’s the beginning of the fragmentation of Europe, which it may well be,” Mr. Castle said.
_____