
Almost nine months passed between that day in June when the British stunned the world by voting to quit the European Union and this Wednesday, when Prime Minister Theresa May 
Much has been said in these intervening months about the potential consequences of Brexit for Britain, Europe and the world, warning that the process will be hugely complex, impossible to complete in two years, painful for both sides, fraught with risk and riddled with a frightening array of unknowns.
The European Union is no simple economic union, from which an exit means changing some trading rules. Since the Treaty of Rome was signed 60 years ago establishing the European Economic Community — the union marked the anniversary four days before Mrs. May dispatched her letter — the “European project” has been an experiment in shared values, sovereignty, standards and laws among nations with differing histories, styles and languages.
While much attention has been focused on the potential damage to the British economy, especially if the talks collapse — and most projections are bleak — that is hardly the only consequence. The Scottish Parliament 
The negotiations might turn ugly over Britain’s “exit bill,” the many billions of euros that the European Union may demand in various dues and contributions. The French have demanded that terms of the exit be settled before any trade talks. On the legal front, Britain needs to revise more than 12,000 regulations and thousands of laws that either incorporate or are shaped by European legislation. On the international front, Brexit is music to the ears of President Vladimir Putin, in whose zero-sum worldview any weakening of Europe equals the strengthening of his Russia.
As for Europe, it’s hard to overestimate the importance of the union in maintaining peace on the Continent, creating a functional single market, and serving as a potent counterweight to authoritarian countries.
Whatever disdain the British might feel for the European Union, its survival and strength should be as important to Britain as they are to the remaining members. And however strongly the union might want to make an example of Brexit that other members will not want to follow, there is no gain in making the rift with Britain worse than it is. There is no turning back from Brexit, and the challenge now for Britain and the European Union should be to do the least harm to each other and the world.