
Lloyd’s sums up London’s phantom exodus.
A day after Britain formally announced the start of its process to leave the European Union, its best-known insurance marketplace confirmed plans to open a new office in Brussels. The outflow of staff members — in the mere tens, out of a British work force approaching 900 — is consistent with a sense that “Brexodus” is a steady trickle rather than a torrent.
Lloyd’s monitors and supports 99 syndicates underwriting specialist insurance worldwide, who in 2015 wrote 11 percent of their gross written premiums in the European Economic Area. In doing something to preserve this arrangement, it is comparatively late to the party. The risk of British entities losing access to European customers after “Brexit” has been obvious since the vote in June. But most big financial companies, like HSBC and Aviva, already have subsidiaries on the Continent.
How many staff members need to actually move is a function of how much business the group does in the European Union and how antsy European regulators might be about the changed circumstances.
There is no way to spin this outflow as a good thing. Even if every financial firm moves only 10 percent of its staff, that could still risk a tangible proportion of the 71 billion pounds (about $89 billion) in tax from financial services companies generated in 2016. UBS has said a fifth of its 5,000 London staff members could be affected by Brexit, while a quarter of JPMorgan Chase’s 16,000 employees in Britain could be.
Still, anecdotally, bankers at the big firms think that the exodus will be less, and that London will retain its financial hub status. While a free-trade agreement between the European Union and Britain on favorable terms for finance seems far-fetched, it’s not impossible. Prime Minister Theresa May said on Wednesday that a future free trade agreement ought to cover financial services. More simply, not many financial types want to leave London.
So Lloyd’s is merely doing what every other firm is doing — acquiring an option that it hopes will expire, out of the money.