
Here’s what to expect in the week ahead:
Britain and the European Union meet Monday for a third round of negotiations. Several issues remain unresolved, including the size of Britain’s “divorce bill” — an attempt to settle its various financial commitments and debts — and the status of the border between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland. Time becomes more of an issue each month, as Britain must leave the bloc by March 2019. 
On Friday, the Labor Department will release the latest data on unemployment and hiring in August. Economists estimate that the economy added about 180,000 jobs in August, a bit slower than July’s gain of 209,000, but that’s still considered a very healthy pace, especially with the unemployment rate at 4.3 percent.
The jobless rate isn’t expected to change, and in addition to the payroll figure, experts will also be closely watching average hourly earnings. For now, wage growth and the threat of inflation remain modest. Wall Street estimates that wages rose by 0.2 percent in August, bringing the annual increase to 2.6 percent. 
Following a 
All three nations agree that Nafta regulations need to be updated to address e-commerce and other technological advances. 
The ink will barely have time to dry on Amazon’s takeover of Whole Foods before the internet giant starts changing the way the high-end grocery store does business. Amazon announced that when the deal has been completed on Monday, it would 
Amazon has not yet announced the dollar amounts of its new pricing plan, but analysts say the reductions could be as much as 25 percent for some products. 
On Wednesday, the Commerce Department will release its second estimate of economic growth in the second quarter. Not much revision is expected from the initial estimate of 2.6 percent last month, but growth in the second half of 2017 is thought to have picked up a bit from that pace.
Automakers are expecting good news on Friday when the industry reports new vehicle sales in the United States for the month of August. After seven straight months of year-over-year declines, sales could increase slightly compared with 2016. The auto-research firm Edmunds.com forecasts total sales at 1.53 million, which would represent a 1 percent increase. Sales of trucks and sport utility vehicles continued to gain market share at the expense of traditional passenger cars, benefiting automakers that have recently added new S.U.V. models, including General Motors, Fiat Chrysler and Toyota. 