
“Swan Upping at Cookham” was painted by the mystical, eccentric English artist Stanley Spencer, who left it half-finished in his bedroom in Cookham when he went off to war in 1915, and the knowledge that it was there sustained him over the next three years. He longed to explain to his military superiors that he couldn’t take part in attacks because he had a painting to finish at home. On his return, he picked it up. “Well there we were looking at each other,” he wrote in his diary. “It seemed unbelievable but it was a fact. Then I wondered if what I had just come from was fact & caught sight of the yellow of the Lyddite or whatever the Bulgars used in their shells on my fingers & finger nails.”
He finished his painting. But the war is caught up in it. Years before he had laid complex, sunlit ripples on the river below the bridge, but the lower postwar parts of the picture are lifeless, muddy and dark. Boats are painted odd colors and have the wrong shapes, his familiar childhood landscape coursing with new and ominous strangeness. And in the days after the referendum, as the purple “Take Back Control” pro-Brexit posters on telephone poles near my house faded to violet in the sun, and as I read of a 42 percent upturn in hate crimes since the result came in, I realized two things: first, that Spencer’s painting had unwittingly recorded a schism in national history, and second, that it was haunting me because I felt I no longer recognized my country, that everything around me had become ominous — lifeless, muddy and dark.
The past was always conjured in Brexiters’ dreams of the future, as it was in Donald Trump’s stump speeches across the Atlantic. The winning power of the Brexit campaign slogan used by the U.K. Independence Party leader Nigel Farage, “We want our country back,” lay partly in its vagueness, which let it appeal to all manner of disaffected constituencies, but also in its double meaning. “Take it back” in the sense of saving the nation from things perceived to threaten it — seen variously as immigrants, faceless European Union bureaucrats, globalization, the “Westminster elite” of Britain’s political establishment — and “take it back” also in the sense of back in time, to some ill-defined golden age. Preserving a continuous national heritage and tradition was an explicit part of the “Leave” campaign. For years I had read in tabloid articles that the E.U. was destroying much-loved English traditions — baseless claims that its bureaucrats were going to ban everything from English breakfasts for truck drivers to the queen’s favorite dog breed, even barristers’ wigs. The quaintness of these conjured shibboleths was no accident: Brexit rhetoric was all about a battle to save English values and an English way of life beleaguered by waves of immigration and European interference. It had weaponized history and tradition.
In its antiquity, its pageantry and its evocation of deep English history, the subject of Spencer’s painting exemplified these themes, and I wondered if seeing swan upping firsthand could help me understand a little more about the state I was in. In a few weeks, the uppers would set out on their journey. I decided to go with them for part of the way. I could have chosen to witness any number of English customs, from Morris dancing to village cricket matches, but swan upping drew me, partly because of the painting but also because I’m fascinated by the relationship between natural history and national history. Symbolically, swans have long been entwined with nationhood and identity. Politics is bound up with them.
The swans on the Thames are mute swans, a native species with a curious history in Britain. In past centuries, when they were commonly served roasted at feasts, fewer free-flying wild ones existed here, and even today they seem to me more like feathered livestock than birds: huge, faintly menacing inhabitants of local parks and rivers, neither fully wild nor fully tame. Swans’ royal ownership dates at least to the 12th century, and certain flocks — known traditionally as games of swans — were granted by royal charter to hundreds of favored dignitaries and institutions. All the young swans in the country were once upped each summer, the last joint of one wing cut away to render them flightless, and patterns incised in their bills or webbed feet to establish ownership. Exquisitely inked manuscript records of these marks still exist: lines and crosses scribed across diagrammatic beaks. As geese and turkeys became popular eating — less territorial than swans, they were much easier to keep — ownership of swan flocks reverted to the crown in all but a few locations, like the Thames.
In Britain, killing a swan still generates unexamined outrage: It is wounding the body politic, a thing akin to treason. The symbolism of swans is so commonly understood in Britain — emblems of the monarchy, and by extension the nation — that these birds have long been counters in the game of what is us and what is not. Perceived threats to swans closely track the imagined enemies of British society. All the swans on the Thames, or so one story goes, were killed by Cromwell’s soldiers during the Civil War, and the river was restocked only with the restoration of the monarchy. Mournful 19th-century obituaries for Old Jack, the swan who lived at the seat of the monarch at Old Buckingham House, relate how his decades-long reign over his pond was brought to an untimely end by a gang of warlike Polish geese. A 19th-century magazine article claimed that swans in the royal parks were killed and skinned and their remains tied to trees by Jewish feather traders.
It’s easy to read these fables of nationhood as curios from another age. But they are not. In the early 2000s, the Sun tabloid accused asylum seekers of stealing the queen’s birds for barbecues. Later it transpired that the basis of the story was a telephone call to a swan sanctuary to report that someone had been seen pushing a swan in a shopping cart.
“Undoubtedly people do eat swans,” Chris Perrins, a swan expert and retired Oxford ornithology professor, told me. Perrins accompanies the uppers every year as the queen’s swan warden. He thinks the culprits are as likely to be British as they are to be immigrants. Many swans are killed by young men with air rifles, bricks and bottles, but these crimes receive far less attention from the news media.
“It’s just a slice of English tradition and pageantry,” Casey Fleming told me. Fleming is a trim, cheerful man with silver hair who works as a sustainability manager in Qatar. Friends with one of the queen’s uppers, he had come with his young son, Reilly, to watch from the press boat in which I, too, had been granted a seat. Fleming was careful to stress that upping is a quintessentially English, rather than British, phenomenon. “By nature,” he mused, “I think the English are traditionalists. Conservative. And we like to hang an anchor to the past. And this sort of event gives us that. It’s culture. Lineage. And without that, without celebrating past events or keeping traditions alive, what defines you as a country or as a race?”
People in Britain have been too ready to sneer at events like this, he told me, but are beginning to realize that they should be celebrated. “To be proud of being English, 10 years ago, was to be thought of as being small-minded, racist — you know, had negative connotations. But I think now it’s different. And I think Brexit has helped that.” The meanings of traditions can change over time, their social functions can shift. Swan-upping data is now used to monitor the health of the Thames’s swan population, and before they set out each morning the uppers meet with local schoolchildren to teach them about swans and river conservation.
David Barber, the queen’s swan marker, who oversees the upping, emerged from the Ferry Inn, resplendent in a red jacket detailed with gold braid, a swan feather tucked into his captain’s hat. He was followed by Perrins and the crews of the queen’s boats and the boats of the Vintners and Dyers, skilled watermen from the lower reaches of the Thames clad in white cotton caps and colored shirts. Here, too, was Wendy Hermon from Swan Support, a charity that rehabilitates sick and injured wild swans. I clambered into the press boat, an elegant wooden umpire launch, and we set off upstream searching for swans.
It didn’t take long. Two feathered white bergs and a lone cygnet drifted serenely past the riverside mansions of Bourne End. “Allll up!” cried the crews, maneuvering their skiffs to box the swans into a shrinking patch of water. Confusion. Raised oars, shoulders, shouts. The male swan raised his wings heraldically, defensively, and was grabbed by the neck. “There’s a catch!” Then things went awry: The female and the cygnet ducked under a gangplank and escaped downstream. The boats raced after them, heading them off, and tried again. “That worked well,” Barber shouted across the water. “That’s how it should be done.”
Soon the female and the cygnet were in the bottom of a skiff, their black webbed feet tied above their tails with strings of the soft braided cotton the uppers kept looped into the belts of their white cotton trousers, and the adult bird’s wings tied, too. I couldn’t see the swans clearly from the press boat — just one distant curved white neck like the spout of an elegant porcelain coffee pot. As we drew closer, I noticed the uppers’ strangely courteous conduct now that there were swans on the boat, quite at odds with the decisive force it had taken to grab them. “My swan hook’s broke,” a waterman said to me, sadly holding a long pole like a shepherd’s crook. He thought it might have been a hundred, maybe a hundred and fifty, years old. He pulled a wry face. “You just can’t get good swan hooks these days.”
Hauled up from the skiffs, the swans were set down reverently upon the lawn of a riverside house. Close up, the adult swan had a snaky neck, glittering black eyes and a waxy orange bill that opened to make nasal, squeaking grunts like an unoiled gate. The bird was a strange coincidence of solidity and air. Sleek contour feathers over thick down, pearls of water running over white feathers thick and curled as paper sculpture. The 4½-month-old cygnet resembled a huge, skinny plush toy. Hermon knelt next to it and opened her box of rings. Swan uppers haven’t clipped swans’ wings for decades, and now the birds are marked with stainless-steel leg rings, not knives.
After the ownership of the cygnet’s mother was ascertained — she was one of the queen’s birds — and the correct ring was selected and fitted to the cygnet, Barber, his face tanned dark, the feather in his cap glowing with steely light, explained to Reilly what they were doing. “You have to check them over to make sure everything is O.K.,” he said, gently picking up the cygnet. “Here.” Reilly took a deep breath and extended both hands in front of him, and the swan was deposited into his outstretched palms, his shoulders bowing slightly to take its weight. I asked him later what it was like. “Like it had a silk wrapping on it,” he said, and the smile he gave me then was shy and full of astonishment. “How did it make you feel?” I asked. He told me it would stick in his mind for the rest of his life. “Hopefully it will come back to me and inspire me,” he said. “Hopefully it will inspire me to be somebody.”
The sun dipping westward, we set off once more upriver. Pulled by motorized tugs for this section of the Thames, the watermen lay back in the skiffs checking their phones. We were passing by some of the most expensive real estate in Britain, architecture inspired by feverish dreams of lost golden ages: vast mock-Tudor mansions, fake castles with crenelated concrete battlements. There were willow trees, summer houses, immaculate sun-drenched lawns, water-meadows where cattle stood hock-deep in the river, dazed by the heat. A crowd of teenagers smoking weed by a disposable barbecue. A woman sitting with her shopping bags on a wooden bench by a parking lot, tossing fragments of supermarket sandwiches to ducks on the water below. She waved at us. So did the teenagers. Everyone did. They waved and smiled, and I waved and smiled back.
I had expected to be cynical about this voyage. But as we progressed upstream, I began to feel a luxuriant, drunken joy. Under the boat, constellations of tiny fry darted through sunlit weeds. The river surface was thick with craft following us: large passenger boats with bars serving beer and decks crammed with sightseers, a near-naked man sunk so deeply in a tiny rubber dinghy that it crowded into his shoulders as he paddled, grinning, along the middle of the river. We passed rowboats, catamarans, sleek pleasure craft resembling 1920s Daimlers. A common tern clipped overhead, translucent supple wing beats over a river crowded with traffic, and something about its flight made me think that it was flying under clouds, but there were no clouds, there were no clouds anywhere and had not been all day, and the sky was the stretched, varnished perfection of linseed-thinned oils.
I had gotten lost inside a hallucinatory English dreamscape. And no wonder. So many of the books I had read as a child were set here — “The Wind in the Willows,” “Three Men In a Boat.” This was where Noël Coward had set his elegant comedies of manners, where Enid Blyton and Edgar Wallace had lived. It was where the stories were written that taught me what it was to be English. And so I listened agog when the affable press coordinator, Paul Wilmott, pointed out one of the Little Ships, part of a 700-strong fleet of private boats that rescued British and French servicemen from Dunkirk during World War II. And I laughed out loud at his story of the Spitfire pilot flying under the bridge at Marlow to impress his girlfriend, only to be hauled over the coals by an air commodore who witnessed the feat. These were stories designed to foster a reassuring sense of national pride, one in which the war is stripped of horror and political complexity and turned into a patriotic tale of plucky English derring-do.
Swan upping is a progress in the old-fashioned sense, a journey upriver that claims the right not only to own swans but to own their meanings, the meanings of the river, the meanings of Englishness. You move through a landscape thick with narratives handed to you by others, and what you read from the banks as you pass is part of what you choose to believe about your nation and who you are. You might see only Dunkirk boats and lines in the air carved by ghostly Spitfires. You might see leisurely 18th-century landscapes in the loose herd of cattle standing in the river. But you might see there, too, the ghosts of forgotten farmworkers, or feel fellowship with a woman eating sandwiches from a plastic packet on a bench or with a gaggle of youngsters smoking pot around a barbecue. Lying in the boat as we hastened toward a new group of swans, I thought of how we choose to see only the things that speak to us of the way we are told the world should be, and then felt a small burst of shame and the breaking of my fever-dream.
It was a stunningly successful gambit and sparked an animated conversation with Zhou. Spencer told him that the people of Cookham are the same as people everywhere: They want to get on with their lives, get on with their neighbors and, as Wright put it, not be bombed. “I feel at home in China,” Spencer said, “because I feel that Cookham is somewhere near.” He is often mocked for his parochialism, his attendance to small things, but, as Wright maintains, his vision was ultimately one in which “through the small, through the located, you enter a more universal domain of human experience.”
Heritage traditions like swan upping have clear conceptual value for nationalists; they promote a sense of seamless historical continuity that works to erase differences between past and present, burnishing an illusion of unchanging Englishness. But remembering the story of Spencer in China made me wonder if swan upping could offer us something other than these exclusionist dreams of a sacrosanct Englishness deep-rooted in an imagined past. For besides the pageantry, what I had watched that day was a beautiful display of expert animal handling and river knowledge. Skiffs crewed by men who know how to row, how to navigate complicated waters, how to catch swans, how to corral them, how to deal with a bird the size of a dog with a flexible neck and wings that can break ribs.
These are craft knowledges, ones learned by apprenticeship, not from books, and universal in the very nature of their specificity. Like Spencer’s Cookham villagers in China, they are global by virtue of being local and cannot easily be fitted to simple stories of race and nationality, of us and them. Later that evening, watching a full moon rise through air thick with the scent of lime blossom, I thought of how there are always counternarratives, hidden voices, lost lives, other ways of being, and how it is possible to see a different, more inclusive England in the most recondite of traditions. And I cherished the thought that grand historical and political narratives might falter, just slightly, in the face of skillful interactions with things that are not us. Small things. Swans, rivers, boats, currents, knotted loops of braided cotton string.