
In one of the most consequential diplomatic events in its postwar history, 
Even as it will lose its second-largest economy, 
President Trump 
Miners are hopeful, but their 
With Mr. Trump making clear that the U.S. has no intention of meeting his predecessor’s commitments to curb planet-warming pollution, we look at how some of 
The House voted on Tuesday to make it easier for telecommunications companies 
The bill now goes to Mr. Trump, who is expected to sign it into law.
The Republican chairman of the House Intelligence Committee 
Asked about Democrats’ concerns about his impartiality, the chairman, Representative Devin Nunes of California, said, “That sounds like their problem.”
House Republican leaders and the White House have restarted negotiations on legislation 
Last week’s setback on health care revealed the limits of an inexperienced White House, but one person has emerged as an effective wingman for a president short on help: 
A photojournalist for The Times spent three weeks in Mosul, Iraq, 
On Tuesday, 
Mr. Trump’s promise to do away with Mr. Obama’s legacy on climate change, and Mrs. May’s farewell to the E.U.
Listen on 
We’re trying something new: Collecting 
In 
As 
That separation, in 1993, was preceded by the so-called Hyphen War, a fierce-yet-bloodless dispute over what the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic, which had just emerged from Soviet control, would call itself.
The government initially proposed just dropping “Socialist,” but the Slovaks, accounting for one-third of the country’s population of about 15 million, sought to be treated as equals in the newly democratic state. A hyphen, they said, would go a long way.
“When you are abroad, you always hear Czech, Czech, Czech,” a Slovak lawmaker 
Vaclav Havel, the country’s first president after Communist rule, offered the hyphenated Czecho-Slovakia, but that angered the Czechs.
Advertisers, meanwhile, tried to please everyone: 
The Hyphen War ultimately ended in 1993 with the so-called Velvet Divorce 