
President Trump is scheduled to meet with the leaders of Fiat Chrysler, Ford and General Motors today.
On Monday, he told American executives to bring manufacturing jobs back to the U.S. or face punishing tariffs, but 
He also 
James B. Comey is said to have told his top agents that Mr. Trump 
The decision would keep Mr. Comey at the center of the F.B.I.’s investigation into several Trump associates and their potential ties with the Russian government.
In a meeting with congressional leaders from both parties on Monday, 
Voting officials across the country have said there is virtually no evidence of such fraud, and certainly not millions of cases.
Mr. Trump’s remarks could overshadow a plan by Senate Democrats today to unveil a 
Prime Minister Theresa May 
She has promised to start negotiations on leaving the bloc by the end of March.
Just five years ago, the African country accomplished what seemed impossible: independence.
Now, with millions of its people hungry or displaced by civil war, 
In California, at least four people died in heavy rains that led to floods and mudslides. Gov. Jerry Brown has 
For a deeper examination of international news, The Times has started a weekly email that explains the ideas and context behind major world events.
The paper predicts that the increase in demand for city living is likely to stall in the next few years.
Mr. Pai is expected to try to roll back Obama administration policies, including net neutrality rules that ban internet service providers from favoring some websites and apps over others.
The real culprit is the industry’s changing technology, which is “usually for the better, but always at higher cost,” 
The Ivy League university will release a report today on 
“This is a very, very neglected piece of our own institution’s history,” said Eric Foner, the historian who wrote the report.
Check back later for the full list of nominees, reactions and our predictions.
If her name is unfamiliar, it may be because her role as an entomologist and botanist in the late 1600s and early 1700s in Europe was largely forgotten because of poor reproductions of her work and setbacks for women in science.
But Merian’s contributions 
The 36-year-old tennis star became 
To get to the final, Williams would need to beat the unseeded American CoCo Vandeweghe, 25.
Katie Rich of “Saturday Night Live” 
Super Bowl history was made 35 years ago today, when John Madden, the former N.F.L. coach and TV commentator, drew diagrams on a screen for viewers watching San Francisco beat Cincinnati in Super Bowl XVI.
The tool he used is now a staple of sports and weather broadcasts.
The Telestrator was invented by Leonard Reiffel, a former NASA scientist and onetime colleague of the astronomer Carl Sagan. Mr. Reiffel developed the tool for a children’s science show he hosted in Chicago.
He successfully pitched the technology to TV sports and weather departments. Networks in New York took notice, and after the 1982 Super Bowl, 
At first, a pen was used to draw on one of Mr. Reiffel’s handmade, wooden consoles. Today, touch-screen tablets are typically used.
For his work, Mr. Reiffel received an Emmy from the National Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2004. His mother coined the name Telestrator, which was slightly catchier than Mr. Reiffel’s description: a “superimposed dynamic television display system.”