
There were 
More than 30,000 people remain in shelters. Here’s a quick 
On the other side of the planet, South Asia has been hit by 
_____
The changes, which are contentious, would make it easier for companies to hire and fire workers and would allow some workplace issues to be negotiated at the company level, rather than with national unions.
So far, criticism of the overhaul has been mild. Leaders of one major union said they planned a national strike on Sept. 12, but the protest is not expected to thwart the changes, given President Emmanuel Macron’s sway in Parliament.
_____
Her challenge of passing legislation for Britain’s departure from the European Union has become more difficult after 
Meanwhile, the third round of Brexit negotiations with the E.U. ended with “no decisive progress on the main topics,” according to Michel Barnier, the negotiator for Brussels.
_____
U.S. officials expect the group’s militants to 
An Islamic State convoy with hundreds of retreating fighters and their relatives 
_____
“In the end, success won’t be measured by academic performance or job placement,” she writes. “It will have more to do with accumulating small pleasures and filling your life with those.”
(Ethan Floquet, the writer’s 21-year-old son, above left, signed for a package for the first time this month.)
On Sunday, Princess Mako, the eldest grandchild of Emperor Akihito of Japan, and Kei Komuro, her college boyfriend, 
Law and tradition dictate that the princess, by marrying a commoner, will become a commoner herself. (Above, the princess with her father.)
Although this has happened before, the engagement has 
To the Japanese public, 
After all, the wife of Akihito was a commoner before their marriage. Akihito’s successor, Crown Prince Naruhito, also married a commoner.
Even conservatives who oppose such changes see the threat of a potential succession crisis. The family now has only five men, including Akihito.
Japan has the oldest continuous monarchy in the world, but only eight women have ruled in the nearly 
People close to the emperor say that he agrees women should be allowed to succeed him.
“I don’t think he sticks to the narrow idea that only a male on the throne is acceptable,” a friend of the emperor’s recently 