
The House Republican plan to replace the Affordable Care Act would increase the number of people without health insurance by 24 million by 2026, while slicing $337 billion off federal budget deficits, 
The Trump administration immediately denounced the budget office’s conclusions.
We examined 
The snow forecast for New York City has been downgraded to 4 to 8 inches, but up to two feet are still expected in the city’s northern suburbs and in New England. 
If you’re among the tens of millions who could get snowed in, we have 
“The president was very clear in his tweet that it was, you know, ‘wiretapping,’ ” Mr. Spicer said, using air quotes. “That spans a whole host of surveillance types of options.” (Those options don’t include microwave ovens, Ms. Conway clarified, after having suggested earlier that they did.)
Britain’s exit from the European Union, talk of Scottish independence, a Dutch election and a spat with Turkey risk a further splintering of Europe. Our columnist discusses 
Young Americans are growing less likely to try or to regularly use drugs, including alcohol. Researchers are beginning to wonder if that’s in part because 
Today’s show looks at the rise of the far right in Europe and at whether Germany is the last defender of the liberal West.
Listen from a 
Our 
The N.C.A.A. 
If you’ve ever felt ripped off by a company, an event this week might interest you.
Wednesday is 
“The march of technology — affecting, for example, the foods we eat, the medicines we take, and the many appliances we use in our homes — has increased the difficulties of the consumer along with his opportunities,” Kennedy said.
He said the government should protect the right to safety, to being informed, to choice and to being heard.
Kennedy’s message helped pave the way for activists like Ralph Nader and his push for vehicle safety. Upton Sinclair, whose 1906 novel “
The movement, though, is often cast in the role of underdog.
“There are a lot of powerful interests trying to tilt the scales against consumers,” the publisher of Consumer Reports 