
The Senate passed a budget bill that 
Two former presidents emerged from political seclusion: 
_____
And fleeing jihadists 
Our podcast 
_____
Using constitutional powers, Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy could appoint a caretaker administration in Catalonia. Mr. Puigdemont could face sedition charges and ultimately a long prison sentence. But such measures would risk provoking a popular backlash.
_____
In Britain, investigative reports into the financing of last year’s campaign to leave the E.U. 
Separately, Czech parliamentary elections begin today. Andrej Babis, a populist media tycoon, is widely expected to win. 
_____
transcript
“Congratulations, you five ladies no longer have to pretend to be attracted to Harvey Weinstein.” Harvey Weinstein’s alleged sexual misconduct has been an open secret in Hollywood for decades. And I think there’s a lot of reasons for that. One of them is definitely the power dynamic. He is a person who had a lot of power, and the women who claimed to be his victims usually did not. They were at the start of their careers. They maybe didn’t feel like they had a recourse to talk about it. There was a sense that there wouldn’t necessarily be any accountability for somebody of Harvey Weinstein’s stature. He was known especially for producing movies that got you to the Oscar, which is what every actor and filmmaker wants to get. “Thank you, Harvey Weinstein.” One of the interesting things about this case is there were a few examples of it coming to light in pop culture. You know, the very people who were affected in some way or at least knew about this misbehavior were addressing it. “Has someone coerced into being here?” “Do you count Harvey Weinstein as a coercer?” “Harvey Weinstein is a — I don’t know whether he’s in some kind of organized crime now.” In 1998, Gwyneth Paltrow appeared on “David Letterman.” She was starring in “Shakespeare in Love” at the time, the movie that ultimately got her an Oscar, thanks to Harvey Weinstein’s savvy Oscar campaigning. She mentioned him on the show in a way that, in retrospect, raised a red flag. “Harvey said, I’ll tell you what, go on and talk about your movie. Is that what Harvey said?” “Yeah.” “And in return, what will Harvey do for you?” “Nothing.” Asia Argento, the actress and filmmaker, wrote a scene that was said to be inspired by Harvey in her film “Scarlett Diva.” It’s a harrowing moment. “I’m not the big bad wolf. Just think of me as a teddy bear.” “O.K.” “Why don’t you suck it?” On a red carpet, Courtney Love even referenced Harvey Weinstein’s reputation in Hollywood. The HBO series “Entourage,” which skewered Hollywood culture, had a character named Harvey Weingarten that bore more than a passing resemblance. “Do you know who I am? You’re going to beg to get back into the pizza business.” Harvey Weinstein has been thanked possibly more than any other person from the Oscar stage. “Harvey Weinstein.” “Harvey Weinstein.” “Harvey.” But Kate Winslet pointedly left him out of her acceptance speech for “The Reader.” She didn’t mention any sexual misconduct, but she said that he had been very difficult to deal with on set. Some of the most pointed commentary came from episodes of “30 Rock,” in which an actress character referenced having to have a relationship with Harvey. “You don’t want to mess with Weird Al.” “Oh please. I’m not afraid of anyone in show business. I turned down intercourse with Harvey Weinstein on no less than three occasions.” I think it’s interesting to see this stuff pop up in pop culture. It may have been an outlet for these writers and directors. If they didn’t feel they could address this in an institutional way, in a legal way, they could at least address it in the work that they did. “I know how former lovers can have a hold over you long after they’re gone. In some ways, I’m still pinned under a passed out Harvey Weinstein and it’s Thanksgiving.”
The actress Lupita Nyong’o shared her experience with Mr. Weinstein in an Op-Ed. “Now that we are speaking, let us never shut up about this kind of thing,” 
The #MeToo movement exposing sexual harassment 
_____
Lulu was adopted by her handler and now spends her days playing with his children. “We’ll miss Lulu, but it was right decision for her & we wish her all the best in her new life!” the intelligence agency wrote on Twitter.
“When something outrages you,” Stéphane Hessel wrote, “as Nazism did me, that is when you become a militant, strong and engaged.”
Born on this day in 1917, Mr. Hessel, a French Resistance hero and Holocaust survivor, became 
At only about 4,000 words, “Indignez-Vous!” (“Time for Outrage!”) was more of a pamphlet. But it resonated with French readers who were gearing up for a 
Mr. Hessel, above, urged young people to revive the spirit of the resistance by peacefully protesting the financial markets, France’s treatment of illegal immigrants, the influence of the rich on the news media and Israel’s treatment of Palestinians.
“Indignez-Vous!” sold more than three million copies in Europe in less than a year and was translated into more than a dozen languages. (The Nation magazine 