
LONDON — “It’s the most depressing moment in our troubled recent history,” said the internationally acclaimed sculptor 
“On a practical level, 30 people work in my studio, and more than half of them are from the E.U. It will directly affect how we work,” said Mr. Kapoor, who is based in London and who 
Mr. Kapoor was highlighting the uncertainty that his European workers feel as Britain embarks on a two-year period of negotiation to leave the 28-nation bloc. As yet, residency rights for citizens of European Union countries who live in Britain have not been stipulated.
“The whole basis of the debate was immigration,” said Mr. Kapoor, an India-born Briton. “Art is being part of a global conversation. Now we are going to think small.”
Britain’s decision to leave the European Union, the world’s largest trading bloc, is expected to have any number of as-yet-unknown ramifications.
There are, however, plenty of people involved in the country’s art economy who think “Brexit” is a good idea.
“This is an opportunity we have to grasp to improve our global competitiveness,” said Anthony Browne, chairman of the British Art Market Federation, an organization that lobbies the government on behalf of auction houses and dealers. “We are in a very strong global position already,” Mr. Browne said, adding that the world’s second-largest national art market last year was in Britain.
According to the estimates of the Art Basel-UBS 
Mr. Browne sees Brexit as an opportunity for the British art trade to free itself from the encumbrances of Europe-imposed tariffs and regulations, such as the value-added tax (5 percent in Britain) on artworks imported from outside the bloc. He said his organization would lobby for streamlining cross-border tax arrangements with Europe and for amending or abolishing a regulation that grants artists a royalty payment each time their work is resold.
Art dealers in Britain said they also saw the advantages.
“A cheaper pound helps us to sell more art, and all sales to the E.U. will become export, so VAT will be eliminated,” said 
“But this isn’t going to be an easy divorce,” Mr. Waterman added. “Ultimately it’s about the deals we get from the E.U.”
“Brexit” might make it less expensive for British dealers to buy art in the United States or Japan, but a British departure from the European trade zone might make it more expensive for Europeans to buy in Britain. In Germany, for example, purchases of art and antiques have a value-added tax as high as 19 percent, unless they occurred within the European Union.
“It’s about maintaining Britain’s entrepôt status,” said 
Another factor is the currency market. Even before an official departure from the European Union, art sales in Britain have been cushioned from adverse effects by a fall in the value of the pound. Since the June 23 referendum, the pound has declined more than 15 percent against the dollar and other currencies, making Britain an attractive market for buyers from Asia and the United States.
The round of 
The revamped 
But Mr. Coles expressed concerns about how “Brexit” might affect London’s real estate market. “Possibly wealthy people won’t buy as many big houses in London,” he said. “To sell furniture, we benefit from an active property market.”
About 4,750 ultrawealthy individuals own homes in London, according to the annual 
This tectonic shift would seem to be underpinning 
Britain’s art economy remains susceptible to forces beyond the control of its politicians. The weaker currency, for example, was bad news for the National Gallery in London when it 
The Florentine Renaissance masterwork was sold in 2015 by its owner, Nicholas J. Alexander, the Earl of Caledon, to the New York collector 
The British government stopped the export of the painting, and Mr. Hill agreed to sell it to the National Gallery for the price he had paid, about £30.6 million. Using grants from the British Treasury, the Heritage Lottery Fund and the Art Fund, the gallery was able to match that price by last October. By then, however, the value of the pound had slumped, and the dollar price was $10 million below what Mr. Hill had paid in 2015. The gallery said in February that Mr. Hill had “decided not to accept” its purchase offer.
“We turned down the National Gallery offer because of the currency move,” Mr. Hill said in a telephone interview.
“It was sterling that had lost value,” he added in an email. “The painting most certainly did not.”
The National Gallery declined to comment.
The Pontormo remains in storage in Britain.
And what has become known in art circles as The Pontormo Affair is just one of the many unexpected consequences of “Brexit.” Over the next few years, we may see many more.