
The state’s legislature will consider a measure today that would 
The law requires transgender people in public buildings to use the bathroom that corresponds with the gender on their birth certificate. It prompted 
Indications are mounting that the 
Officials say it represents decision making that began under former President Barack Obama, and the military’s actions give the first indications of how operations are continuing under President Trump, who has vowed to make the military “fight to win.”
Secretary of State Rex Tillerson has decided 
President Xi Jinping 
It comes as the world’s two largest emitters of greenhouse gases are 
Senators pledged on Wednesday 
Mr. Trump’s daughter 
The move comes after ethics experts criticized the fact that she had an office in the White House and was in the process of receiving a security clearance despite not working for the government.
As Prime Minister Theresa May officially initiated 
But the reassuring talk did not reckon with one significant detail: 
In today’s show, we look at the battle over climate change through the eyes of a coal miner.
Listen on 
U.S. stocks 
More than 130,000 people have amassed along a desert highway in Niger, chased from their villages by Boko Haram, the Islamist militant group. 
Many factors have contributed to the high cost of health care in the U.S. But as hospitals have learned to manipulate 
On “The Late Show,” 
When Russia sold Alaska to the U.S. 150 years ago today, there was consternation on both sides of the Pacific.
American critics railed at the principal negotiator, Secretary of State William Seward, calling the deal 
The Russians sold because they judged the territory a lost cause. After the Crimean War with Britain during the mid-1850s, Russia 
The transaction cost the U.S. only $7.2 million — approximately $125 million today — to the delight of at least one American paper.
“We have made a fair trade,” 
The editors continued, waxing both righteous and pugnacious, that while Europe quarreled over “Eastern questions and German questions, Brother Jonathan” — a 