
The chairman, Representative Devin Nunes of California, has been criticized as being too close to the administration to effectively conduct an independent investigation of Russia’s meddling in the presidential election.
Mr. Flynn, the former national security adviser, said 
But investigators are unwilling to broker a deal until they are further along in their inquiry, an official said.
In a post on Twitter today, Mr. Trump 
Britain must agree to pay its bills and to protect millions of Europeans living in the country before reaching a new trading relationship with the European Union, the 
The president, Donald Tusk, warned that the negotiations could be “confrontational.”
The country’s Supreme Court, controlled by the leftist President Nicolás Maduro, issued a ruling that 
SpaceX 
Park Geun-hye, the recently impeached president, 
In today’s show, we talk about the Washington drama with Mr. Nunes at the center, and how technology interrupts culture in India.
Listen on 
He is expected 
But the 
There’s 
And it’s not just the routine itself but how you think about the morning. C.E.O.s like to ask the following interview questions: “
We’re trying something new: Collecting 
For better or worse, city-dwelling families that reach a certain size often make the leap to the suburbs for more space and better schools.
At the movies, our critics review “
We also review Netflix’s “
In sports, we visit 
A report that federal workers were barred from using the term “climate change” inspired 
Join the club. Celebrate World Backup Day today.
The event was 
One company, Backblaze, says its annual surveys show that the number of computer users who never back up their data has been shrinking, dropping to 
Still, data loss miseries abound. The animation studio Pixar suffered when 
“We saw Hamm, Potato Head and Rex,” said Oren Jacob, the company’s former chief technical officer. Then “just Hamm and then nothing.”
Though Pixar was able to recover its files through painstaking work, not all data losses end happily.
The creators of a children’s show called “Zodiac Island” sued their internet service provider and one of its former employees after he 
Perhaps because World Backup Day had not yet been instituted, the files had not been backed up.
(If you’re feeling inspired, The Wirecutter, a product reviews website owned by The Times, has 