
With Congress about to take a recess, Speaker Paul Ryan is trying for a third time to rally his party around a 
House Republican leaders considered last-minute changes today to the new bill to repeal the Affordable Care Act, such as adding $8 billion in extra spending in a bid to win the support of prominent Republicans like Representative Fred Upton of Michigan. Mr. Upton came out against the new bill and its lack of protections for people with 
If the measure goes to the House floor this week, 
In a hearing today, 
Mrs. Clinton said on Tuesday that “
The decision not to challenge China’s territorial claims is a signal of deference as the Trump administration looks to President Xi Jinping for help in dealing with North Korea.
President Trump spoke with 
Mr. Trump agreed to send a representative to Russia-brokered cease-fire talks, which start today.
A police officer who shot and killed a black 15-year-old under questionable circumstances in a Dallas suburb was 
Also on Tuesday: 
The papers say they merely reflect the concerns and fears of their readers, but critics say they poison debate by playing to people’s worst instincts.
On today’s episode, a bipartisan budget deal, and Peter Baker of The Times discusses the White House’s on-again off-again relationship with Russia.
Listen on 
Our 
A Times photographer also followed an Airbus A321 being assembled over six months. The state hopes the factory 
A legal fight could make Kentucky the 
The prospect has rattled reproductive rights activists but has made the “unapologetically pro-life” governor a hero among opponents of abortion.
Kumail Nanjiani of “Silicon Valley” breaks out with “The Big Sick,” a romantic comedy that 
“You don’t see Muslims being matter-of-fact Muslim,” Mr. Nanjiani said of American films. “They’re always defined by their Muslim-ness.”
What’s next for Thomas Keller, the 61-year-old 
“I have to prepare myself to let go, which is a very, very difficult thing for me,” he said. “It breaks my heart.”
Hillary Clinton’s rare public appearance 
On this day almost 40 years ago, Gary Thuerk, a marketer for Digital Equipment Corporation, sent a message advertising computer systems to over 400 users of the Arpanet, the precursor to the internet. 
Complaints about the unsolicited email came almost immediately.
“This was a clear and flagrant abuse of the directory!” 
One Arpanet user, Richard M. Stallman, who did not receive Mr. Thuerk’s message, claimed he would not have minded receiving it. Then a recipient shared it with him.
“I eat my words,” Mr. Stallman wrote. “I sure would have minded!”
Mr. Thuerk has since been called the “
“I think of myself as the father of e-marketing,” he said. “There’s a difference.”
In 2012, 
These days, Mr. Thuerk draws mixed reviews when people discover his past.
“People either say, ‘Wow! You sent the first spam!’ ” he said, “or they act like I gave them cooties.”