
LONDON — The potential panic phase of 
But if the risk of a precipitous plunge is now safely in the rear view, a trudge through confusing terrain remains ahead as Britain pushes on toward Europe’s exits — or Brexit. It is a journey that will almost certainly entail pain and lost treasure, the central bank explicitly warned in 
“Uncertainties associated with Brexit are weighing on domestic activity, which has slowed even as global growth has risen significantly,” the bank declared. “Monetary policy cannot prevent either the necessary real adjustment as the United Kingdom moves toward its new international trading arrangements or the weaker real income growth that is likely to accompany that adjustment over the next few years.”
Central banking is a mysterious enterprise, not unlike a conclave of seers communicating by smoke signals from a mountain redoubt. Yet this message was strikingly clear: Britain is bound toward trouble, with only the extent of the damage yet to be determined.
The rate hike surprised no one, having been telegraphed for weeks. The increase of the bank’s lending rate from 0.25 percent to 0.50 appeared small enough that few expected it to pack substantial economic consequences. The bank presented it as a requisite attack on rising prices. But analysts saw another motive, an eagerness from the central bank to secure room to act again should the economy weaken: It raised rates so it could lower them if Britain requires a fresh jolt of stimulus.
The action packed symbolic import. On a June morning last year, as Britain awoke to the startling news that 
Now, nearly a year and a half later, Mr. Carney was taking that easy money back.
“It’s signaling that the bank has a degree of confidence that that immediate post-referendum worry has been put to bed,” said Lucy O’Carroll, chief economist at Aberdeen Standard Investments, an asset management firm in London. “But there’s a long game to be played, and Mr. Carney is not convinced that Brexit is going to be anything other than harmful for the U.K. economy.”
Lifting interest rates tends to increase the value of a nation’s money, as investors arrive seeking higher returns. But markets pushed down the value of the British pound against both the dollar and the euro following the central bank’s action, an apparent reflection of worry about Britain’s economy and its trade with Europe.
The clock is ticking toward a March 2019 deadline for negotiations between Britain and the European Union over their future dealings. So far, talks have produced a surplus of bitter recrimination and meager sign of an agreement.
Uncertainty is already exacting a price. Nearly half of Britain’s exports are sold within the European Union, a stream of cars, liquor and pharmaceuticals that could confront tariffs absent a completed trade deal. As the markets factor in the prospect of diminished trade across the English Channel, they have pushed down the value of the pound by nearly 15 percent against the euro since last year’s Brexit vote.
The falling currency has lifted the prices of Britain’s imported goods, squeezing households with inflation now running at a 3 percent annual rate. That has dented consumer spending, contributing to a 
As the possibility looms that Britain might crash out of the European Union absent an agreement with the bloc, multinational companies are reassessing the merits of centering operations here, imperiling investment.
London’s status as a global financial center has in recent decades taken strength from rules that allow banking operations in Britain to serve clients across the European Union. Without a deal preserving that arrangement, 
Global auto manufacturers have similarly concentrated factories in Britain while exporting their wares across Europe. But as the potential for an unruly Brexit increases, auto companies are also calculating the merits of shifting production to European locales.
The British government, headed by a 
If December passes without sign of progress on a trade deal — an outcome that is more than thinkable — that will likely accelerate decisions by multinational companies to move pieces of their businesses to Europe.
In that scenario, Britain risks a recession next year, said Peter Urwin, director of the Centre for Employment Research at Westminster Business School in London. “At the very least, the odds are 50-50,” he said.
Britain has started the clock on leaving the European Union, and will be out of the bloc by March 2019. Here is how “Brexit” has affected business so far.
Central banks tend to lift rates when economies are strengthening. They make credit more expensive so as to guard against the side-effects of rapid expansion, such as rising prices and reckless investment. Yet the Bank of England, Mr. Urwin suggested, appears to be less concerned about inflation than positioning itself to step in with more help if the economy weakens.
“They are trying to get a little ammunition back in the armory,” Mr. Urwin said.
Many analysts assumed the bank was essentially forced to deliver the rate hike. Had it held back, that would have surprised investors — a taboo in central banking — while resonating as evidence of deepening concern about the health of the British economy.
Investors might well have intensified their unloading of the British pound, exacerbating inflation, and increasing the strains facing the economy.
Skipping the rate hike also would have put Britain further out of step with policymakers in the rest of the global economy, and especially the United States. The Federal Reserve has been lifting rates to return credit to more normal levels, following years of injections of extraordinarily cheap money.
Yet in lifting rates, the Bank of England has slightly added to the headwinds assailing Britain on its continued slog toward Brexit. Retail and auto sales have been weak, even with ultracheap finance. Now, credit terms are likely to tighten along with variable mortgage rates. The cost of capital will climb slightly for companies already reluctant to invest in uncertain times.
Given the backdrop, investors concluded that another rate hike is unlikely anytime soon.
“Today’s excitement is likely to prove only a short hiatus before the economy returns to another extended period of monetary policy inaction,” declared Matthew Beck, lead U.K. economist with Oxford Economics in London.