
DUBLIN — Prime Minister Leo Varadkar of Ireland has narrowly averted the collapse of his government, but he emerged from a political crisis badly weakened on Tuesday, just weeks before a crucial European Union meeting about 
Mr. Varadkar’s deputy prime minister, Frances Fitzgerald, resigned on Tuesday over her role in a policing scandal. Her resignation was announced hours before a no-confidence vote was due in Parliament, averting a snap election.
“I believe it is necessary to take this decision to avoid an unwelcome and potentially destabilizing general election at this historically critical time,” Ms. Fitzgerald said 
The main opposition party, Fianna Fail, 
The crisis began with revelations that Ms. Fitzgerald had been informed in 2015, while she was minister for justice, that police lawyers were intending to attack the credibility of a police whistle-blower in their evidence to a tribunal of inquiry.
Ms Fitzgerald said that she did not remember reading the email and that, had she read it, she would not have had the power to intervene. Mr. Varadkar defended her, saying he was willing to risk a snap election rather than give in to opposition demands.
But faced with the prospect of fighting a deeply unpopular winter election, members of Mr. Varadkar’s party, Fine Gael, began questioning his continued support of Ms. Fitzgerald once it became clear on Monday that she had in fact been informed several times about the intentions to discredit the whistle-blower.
The episode is a major blow to Mr. Varadkar, who 
The upheaval comes at a highly sensitive time. The government in Dublin must present its case on 
There are currently no border or customs checkpoints between the two countries, and Dublin is pushing to maintain that arrangement. The freedom of movement and trade was a crucial component of the 1998 Good Friday Agreement, which effectively ended 30 years of armed conflict in Northern Ireland.
Northern Ireland is facing 
The meeting in December is supposed to determine whether Britain has made sufficient progress in negotiations about the country’s withdrawal to begin parallel talks on a trade deal with the bloc’s remaining 27 members.
But if Dublin feels that its concerns about keeping an open border have not been satisfied, Ireland could seek to veto the start of trade talks.