
Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain 
The British do not vote directly for their prime minister. Instead, they vote for a candidate to represent their district in Parliament. The leader of the party that wins the most seats in Parliament normally becomes the prime minister. Historically, prime ministers could call an election whenever they chose. But in 2011, Parliament passed a law that scheduled a general election every five years — with two exceptions. If the members of Parliament lose confidence in the government, or if two-thirds of the members agree, a “snap” election can be held. Mrs. May, the current prime minister and leader of the Conservative Party, believes she has the votes to hold an early election.
Mrs. May took office less than a year ago, when her predecessor, David Cameron, resigned after losing the 
However, Mrs. May has since staked her legacy on Brexit. With only a small working majority in Parliament at the start of what is expected to be a difficult two years of negotiations, she decided to go to the voters now. Polls suggest that the Conservative Party will easily win an election if it is held soon, thus strengthening her majority.
While the election will certainly reopen the debate over Brexit, the country remains on track to sever ties with the European Union. Under the current plan, Britain will officially leave in March 2019.
The Brexit referendum passed by a thin majority, and Mrs. May did not come to power through a general election. If she wins this vote, it will embolden her, adding to her legitimacy and strengthening her ability to withdraw from the union smoothly.
It is unlikely that the Conservatives will suffer significant losses or that there will be a new referendum on Brexit.
According to a BBC analysis of recent polls, the Conservatives are leading by 17 percent. But the polls in Britain have been wrong before, including before the Brexit referendum. If Mrs. May’s majority is reduced or the Conservatives somehow lose, then a new Brexit strategy, including a decision to remain in the European Union, becomes feasible.
The election presents considerable risks for the opposition Labour Party. Another bad loss might lead to an internal shake-up and the replacement of the party’s contentious leader, Jeremy Corbyn.