
The decision will likely come up at Mr. Obama’s final news conference today, along with other legacy issues, like the fight to preserve the Affordable Care Act.
A report found that 
_____
Mr. Xi, who made a forceful argument for free trade, international integration and climate responsibility 
_____
Senate hearings 
And officials are putting the final touches on days of celebrations for his inauguration on Friday, which will also be surrounded by protests. Security costs could 
_____
The decision, while expected, drew criticism from families of the 239 people who were on board
_____
transcript
SOUNDBITE (Korean) Lee Kyu-chul, spokesman for the special investigation team: “Today, the special investigation team requested an arrest warrant of Samsung Electronics Vice Chairman Lee Jae-yong for a breach of law including bribe-offering, certain economy-related crimes, embezzlement, perjury at parliament.” SOUNDBITE (Korean) Lee Kyu-chul, spokesman for the special investigation team: “In deciding the request, the special investigation team judged that although it is important to (consider) the impact on the economy, it is even more important to establish upright justice.” (SOUNDBITE) (Korean) 72-YEAR-OLD SOUTH KOREAN RESIDENT, LEE HEE-RAK, SAYING: “I am absolutely opposed to the arrest of Samsung’s vice chairman Jay Y. Lee. As a representative company of Republic of Korea, if that company goes out of business, our people would have a hard time. In the sense of saving the company and also in a legal sense so far, he should not be arrested.”
Mr. Lee has denied accusations that he paid more than $36 million in bribes to organizations linked to Choi Soon-sil, the unofficial adviser at the center of the corruption scandal that engulfed President Park Geun-hye.
The Oval Office is often used as shorthand for the U.S. presidency, but did you know that fewer than half of the presidents have worked there?
During President Theodore Roosevelt’s term (1901-09), the West Wing was added to hold the executive branch’s growing staff. He had a rectangular-shaped office in the addition (now called the Roosevelt Room).
Earlier leaders worked in the residence, mostly in what is known as the Lincoln Bedroom. Roosevelt’s successor, William H. Taft, had the Oval Office built and was its first occupant.
The design wasn’t novel.
George Washington had oval-shaped rooms in Philadelphia in 1791, allowing him to greet guests circled around him. The pomp mimics an English court tradition called the levée.
There was a White House precursor, too. The Blue Room is rounded and used for diplomatic receptions. In the family quarters, there’s a Yellow Oval Room.
On Christmas Eve in 1929, the Oval Office 
Presidents can redecorate, but there are limits. One is that the presidential seal must remain on the ceiling.
And there’s an other tradition: the outgoing president leaves a letter on the desk for his successor.