
“What you reading?” Daniel Gluck asks whenever he sees Elisabeth Demand in Ali Smith’s latest novel, “Autumn.” They are each other’s favorite people in the world, even though their paths cross only intermittently and he is 69 years older than she is.
“It isn’t that kind of relationship,” Elisabeth says at one point, to a jealous lover. “It isn’t even the least bit physical. It never has been. But it’s love. I can’t pretend it isn’t.”
Their extraordinary friendship forms the moral center of this beautiful, subtle work, the seventh novel by Smith, who consistently produces some of Britain’s most exciting, ambitious and moving writing. When the story begins, the year is 2016, and Daniel, now 101, is quietly dying in an elder-care facility somewhere outside London. He has no family, so Elisabeth appoints herself to the position.
It’s always lovely between the two of them, even in this sad circumstance, but outside, ill will and menace hang thick in the air. Britain has voted to leave the European Union, a shocking turn of events that has provoked equal parts euphoria and despair. As in the United States at this perplexing moment, the nation feels as if it’s turning into a different, unfamiliar place, and an ugly rift has opened in the collective psyche.
Half their village isn’t speaking to the other half, Elisabeth’s mother tells her. Someone has spray-painted the words “GO HOME” on the house of a family presumably believed to be immigrants. A mysterious barbed-wire enclosure has sprung up nearby, heavy with security cameras and patrolled by guards.
“All across the country, people felt it was the wrong thing,” Smith writes. “All across the country, people felt it was the right thing. All across the country, people felt they’d really lost. All across the country, people felt they’d really won.”
The reference to “A Tale of Two Cities” is deliberate. It’s one of the works Elisabeth reads or thinks about in the novel, a list that also includes “The Tempest,” “Brave New World” and “Metamorphoses.” Their themes — disruption and displacement; the harshness of bureaucracy; states of wonder and states of fear; the promise of transformation; the power of storytelling itself — feature, too, in “Autumn.” Smith teases out big ideas so slyly and lightly that you can miss how artfully she goes about it.
Meanwhile, we check in on Daniel and Elisabeth at different points in their relationship, starting when Elisabeth is 8 and her mother tells her not to hang around their elderly neighbor. (Luckily, Elisabeth does it anyway.) As an adult, she has a precarious job and an uncertain future as a junior lecturer in art at a university in London.
But like Daniel, Elisabeth has a resilience, a delight in words and stories, an imaginative playfulness that finds light in even the grayest of circumstance. Trying to renew her passport after a wait so long that she reads most of “Brave New World” before her number is called, she is informed by the postal clerk that since her photograph violates passport standards, her application will most likely be rejected.
Her mind starts whirring. If it were a TV drama, Elisabeth tells the clerk, “this notion that my head’s the wrong size in a photograph would mean I’ve probably done or am going to do something really wrong and illegal.” Warming to her theme, she begins to riff on moments that might be portents of cinematic doom — a child cycling out of sight, a person driving a car while someone else waits at home — until the clerk finally slaps a “Position Closed” sign at his window.
“This isn’t fiction,” he says. “This is the Post Office.”
As for Daniel, no one in the care home, seeing him gossamer-frail and barely conscious, would know what an interesting life he has led, about his career as a songwriter, about the fecundity of his imagination. As death begins to overtake him he imagines himself wrapped up in leaves and trees, dissolving into nature. He dreams of extraordinary things and in his mind revisits scenes and people from his past: former lovers; a terrifying encounter on a train as a teenager; his beloved, fiercely intelligent sister. As in Smith’s 2001 novel “Hotel World,” in which a young woman who has just died struggles to maintain her connection to the living, Daniel finds his memory deserting him as his consciousness slips away.
Chronology skips forward and backward and sideways, moving slowly and then quickly. “A minute ago it was June,” the author says. “Now the weather is September.” Smith’s writing is fearless and nonlinear, exploring the connectivity of things: between the living and the dead, the past and the present, art and life. She conveys time almost as if it is happening all at once, like Picasso trying to record an image from every angle simultaneously.
Sometimes it’s hard to grasp all the nuance, to corral all the unruly strands into a coherence, especially in Smith’s most Woolfian stream-of-consciousness moments. And as interesting and thought-provoking as it is, the chapter on a ’60s Pop artist named Pauline Boty, whom Daniel was in love with and who died young (though she was real and he of course is fictional), seems a little incongruous, almost as if it wandered in from a different book.
But Smith’s writing is light and playful, deceptively simple, skipping along like a stone on the surface of a lake, brimming with humanity and bending, despite everything, toward hope. As Daniel’s sister says to him in a letter from long ago that he recalls in his twilight state, hope is “a matter of how we deal with the negative acts toward human beings by other human beings in the world, remembering that they and we are all human.”
“Autumn” is the first book in a planned four-volume series based on the seasons (“Winter” is coming next), and the wondrous changes wrought by autumn start to express themselves in the characters as well.
Passing the house with the “GO HOME” graffiti, Elisabeth sees that the words “WE ARE ALREADY HOME THANK YOU” have been painted right underneath, along with a tree and bright red flowers. A number of bouquets of real flowers have been left outside, as if in solidarity with and sympathy for the occupants.
“The wild joyful brightness painted on the front of that house in a dire time” gets her thinking about color, about aesthetics, about a dozen new and exciting things that she might be able to make something of, even if she loses her job. “It’s the first time she’s felt like herself for quite some time,” Smith writes. Even Elisabeth’s depressed mother finds a reason to be undepressed.
“Whoever makes up the story makes up the world,” Daniel says at one point, “so always try to welcome people into the home of your story.” That’s what Smith does, all the time, tries to welcome people in.
The best parts of “Autumn,” the most moving parts, the transcendent parts, come during Elisabeth and Daniel’s conversations about words, art, life, books, the imagination, how to observe, how to be. Theirs is a conversation that begins mid-paragraph and never ends.
“Very pleased to meet you,” Daniel says the first time, to the 8-year-old Elisabeth. “Finally.”
“How do you mean, finally?” Elisabeth asks. “We only moved here six weeks ago.”
“The lifelong friends,” Daniel says. “We sometimes wait a lifetime for them.”