
STRASBOURG, France — Declaring that “the whole world benefits from a strong E.U.,” Justin Trudeau on Thursday became the first sitting prime minister of Canada to address the European Parliament, underscoring their close ties even as Britain 
Mr. Trudeau, who talked about the “important bedrock of common values” of peace and justice shared by Canadians and Europeans, did not once mention Britain, the Commonwealth (of which Canada is a member) or the United States in the prepared text of his 
Mr. Trudeau’s speech here in Strasbourg, a potent symbol of the French-German alliance that is at the core of the European Union, came a day after the European Parliament ratified a landmark trade deal that many economists and other observers see as a counterweight to the 
Seven years in the making, the deal slashes tariffs on industrial and agricultural products and opens up the services sector in areas like cargo shipping, telecommunications and financial services.
And yet it nearly fell through: In October, Mr. Trudeau had to postpone a trip to Brussels until concessions were made by the Belgian government, including promises 
Mr. Trudeau indirectly alluded on Thursday to the anxieties that have propelled populist movements, especially immigration, which is a major worry for the British voters who decided to leave the European Union and for the American voters who put Mr. Trump, a political outsider, into the White House.
“We live in a time when some people are worried that the current system only benefits society’s narrow elite,” Mr. Trudeau said. “And their concern is valid. This anxiety towards the economy and trade — the worry that our kids won’t have access to the same jobs and opportunities that we have — can be addressed only if we ensure that trade is inclusive, and that everyone benefits.”
The Canada-European Union deal, known as the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement, or CETA, “is a terrific example of just that,” he continued.
He acknowledged that protectionist forces had placed open economies under tremendous pressure, and he stressed that trade deals must work for ordinary people and help to improve the average person’s standard of living. “If we are successful, CETA will become the blueprint for all ambitious future trade deals,” he said. “If we are not, this could well be one of the last.”
Mr. Trudeau’s speech was a notable counterpoint to the rhetoric of Mr. Trump and, to a lesser extent, that of Britain’s prime minister, Theresa May, both of whom have questioned the European Union’s relevance and even its long-term future. Mr. Trudeau’s message for the European Union, an alliance that is facing profound, even existential, challenges, seemed intended to bolster its morale.
“The European Union is a truly remarkable achievement and an unprecedented model for peaceful cooperation,” Mr. Trudeau said. “Canada knows that an effective European voice on the global stage isn’t just preferable — it’s essential.”
He added: “We know that the E.U. is the world’s largest donor of development and humanitarian assistance, and that, together, your member states represent one of the world’s largest economies. Not only that, but you are a vital, central player in addressing the challenges that we collectively face as an international community.”
Mr. Trudeau’s approach stands in sharp contrast to President Trump’s moves to shut out refugees, overturn trade deals and denigrate multilateral organizations, including the European Union and the United Nations. That made Mr. Trudeau a particularly welcome guest.
“We share the same vision of an open world and the need to cooperate together to provide hard and fast answers to the problems faced by our citizens, whether we are talking about fighting terrorism, the security issues, management of migration, jobs and growth or climate change,” said 
Accompanied into the parliamentary chamber by ushers wearing white bow ties and gloves, Mr. Trudeau spoke partly in French, which is customary for a Canadian leader, but also appeared to underscore his country’s affinity with Europe.
Adding that it was an honor to address the chamber, Mr. Trudeau said that Europe and Canada had “built something — something important — especially at this moment on your continent and mine,” referring to the trade agreement.
The deal still must be approved by national and regional parliaments in Europe, and it could face a number of obstacles during that process. For their part, Canadians were making “steady progress” toward ratification of the deal, François-Philippe Champagne, the Canadian minister for international trade, said at a news conference on Wednesday.
His boss, Mr. Trudeau, said at the news conference: “We’re in a globalized world, and how we make sure that we are turning that into opportunities for small businesses and our citizens is the challenge of our times.”
Asked about his 
Earlier, a number of lawmakers took the opportunity of a close brush with Mr. Trudeau to take pictures with their cellphones. Opponents of the trade deal were mostly muted, though at least one sign condemning the pact could be seen as Mr. Trudeau spoke.
“Justin Trudeau’s government has been a positive contrast to the attitude of the Trump on CETA administration,” he said in a statement. “However, in continuing the work of his predecessor, Trudeau has shown himself to be more a man of continuity than one looking to disrupt the status quo.”