
WASHINGTON — First there was the Brexit drama. Now comes the farce. Almost a year after a narrow majority of Britons voted to pull out of the European Union, British voters face a general election on Thursday that was as unwanted as it was unexpected.
One thing on which all people agree about Britain’s prime minister, Theresa May: She 
“Brexit means Brexit” also has a clean ring to it, but Mrs. May has had trouble spelling out what a post-European Britain would look like. There is a world of difference between an amicable divorce and a messy one.
A more honest slogan would be: “Making the best of a bad job.” But no one, not even the party of Winston Churchill, is in the business these days of selling blood, sweat and tears. Brexiteers propose instead recapturing the spirit of an earlier Elizabethan age, when plucky English buccaneers forged pathways to the New World. This is a delusion based on a fantasy of how the 21st-century world works.
What ever happened to internationalist Britain?
An unexpected surge of populist-nationalist rage at globalist elites is often blamed for the Brexit vote. But it is the elites, not the people, who have led Britain’s retreat from Europe and the world.
Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union is part of a more prolonged disengagement that started years before Brexit. The political leaders of the 1970s, like Edward Heath, Denis Healey, Roy Jenkins and Harold Wilson, who took Britain into Europe had either fought in World War II or lived through it. Even Margaret Thatcher was, 
Their heirs, who were elected to Parliament in the late 1990s and the first decade of this century, have had less experience of the world beyond Britain’s shores than any political generation in decades, perhaps even centuries. They have become the leaders of a post-internationalist Britain, a new insularity that Churchill would have found unfathomable.
I happened to attend university with almost this entire echelon of today’s political class. David Cameron, the former prime minister, was two years my senior at Oxford. George Osborne, the former chancellor of the Exchequer, was three years below me. In this same cohort were Boris Johnson, Britain’s foreign secretary; Ed Miliband, the former Labour leader; and Ed Balls, a former senior Labour leader. Mrs. May, who also went to Oxford, is several years older than this group, but her politics epitomize Britain’s retreat into a provincial mind-set. (Jeremy Corbyn, the Labour Party leader, escapes this narrow demographic. He attended North London Polytechnic.)
With brief exceptions, such as Mr. Johnson’s 
Among Mr. Cameron’s social circle, known as the “
It is up to Mrs. May, or possibly Mr. Corbyn, to pick up the pieces. The initial polling predictions of a landslide win for Mrs. May have evaporated amid a lackluster campaign. The likeliest outcome of Thursday’s election is that Mrs. May’s Conservatives will win re-election but without a strong mandate.
As Election Day approaches, Britain’s voters seem disenchanted with the choices offered. The recent terrorist attacks, first in Manchester, now in London, have only reinforced the public’s skeptical mood about their political leaders — all of which raises the chances of a hobbled British government even less able to handle the Brexit negotiations than before.
Brussels could cope with a nasty divorce. Britain could not. It would thus pay for Britain to be nice. Yet Mrs. May seems to be going out of her way to rub the Europeans the wrong way. Early in the campaign, she warned European leaders darkly against interfering in Britain’s election. She referred to unspecified “
Europe rarely achieves a speedy consensus on anything, but thanks to Mrs. May, the 27 member states (minus Britain) are now 
It is not only in Brussels that the 
With the prospects of a disadvantageous Brexit deal rising, Scotland would be tempted to push for another referendum on independence. Northern Ireland, too, where a majority of people 
This is the pass that our provincial-minded elite has brought us to. Unserious about the country’s tradition of global engagement, this generation has squandered the prestige of Britain’s place in the postwar international order, all for petty party advantage and pandering.
After his Brexit debacle, Mr. Cameron left power much as he had wielded it, 