
Her predecessor, David Cameron, gambled on a referendum to put an end to talk of leaving the European Union — and lost, setting Britain on course for isolation and economic upheaval. Prime Minister Theresa May gambled on a quick election to strengthen her hand in negotiating the departure — and failed just as miserably, losing her Conservative 
In an era of election surprises, Britain’s didn’t disappoint. Two months ago, when Mrs. May made her call for a snap election, Conservatives held a huge lead over Labour, which was perceived as dead in the water under the old-school hard-leftist Jeremy Corbyn. Mrs. May was expected to get five years of unchallenged authority. Instead, Labour gained a whopping 29 seats in Parliament, helped by the biggest turnout in two decades, and a triumphant Mr. Corbyn called on Mrs. May to resign. In a parallel surprise, the Scottish National Party suffered a drubbing, effectively ending talk of another referendum on Scottish independence.
Mrs. May lost for many reasons, chief among them a campaign that undermined her reputation as a resolute and tough leader. She rarely ventured outside scripted Conservative settings, and when she did she was ill at ease and tone-deaf. Her plan to charge the elderly more for long-term care was especially damaging. The proposal was promptly labeled the “dementia tax,” and she was compelled to withdraw it. Mr. Corbyn, by contrast, confounded all expectations with an aggressive campaign that featured enthusiastic crowds at packed open-air rallies.
Surprisingly, Brexit — the reason Mrs. May called the election and arguably the most important matter confronting Britain, with potentially dire consequences for the economy and for Britain’s place in the world — played only a marginal role in either the Conservative or Labour campaign. Neither Mrs. May nor Mr. Corbyn presented a coherent strategy for leaving the European Union. Voters were left with the vague notion that Mrs. May favored a hard exit, with a full withdrawal from the common market and an end to the free movement of people, and that Mr. Corbyn favored a softer exit. Only the Liberal Democrats focused on Brexit, calling for a new referendum, but they emerged with a mere 12 seats.
With all but one of the 650 seats in the House of Commons settled, the Conservatives still have the most, 318, and Mrs. May pledged to 
By contrast, the European Union side has been invigorated by the election of a strongly pro-European president in France, Emmanuel Macron, and the likelihood that his new party will win big in the impending parliamentary elections. Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany also looks solid in her bid for a fourth election victory in September. European Union officials in Brussels insisted that dealing with a weakened Britain was not in their interest, but there was no disguising a dollop of schadenfreude.
A weakened Britain is in nobody’s interest. While the election did not give Mrs. May the strong hand she wanted, it could still benefit Britain if it forces the country’s newly reshuffled political leadership to confront not only the domestic issues that played a role in the campaign, but also the elephant in the room that went all but unnoticed. June 23 will mark one year since the Brexit referendum; it is time for the government to come clean with the public about what it can realistically expect from the divorce with Europe, and what its strategy will be for the negotiations.