
LONDON — “There is no ‘Mayism,’ ” 
The prime minister was being either tactically bashful or positively disingenuous. Above all else, this document showed that there most certainly 
For more than 30 years, the Tories — inspired by Margaret Thatcher — have been committed to free markets, deregulation, the privatization of government-owned businesses and the 
But Mrs. May aspires to update this orthodoxy with a radicalism that amounts to much more than a polite course correction. The 
It is hard to exaggerate the force of this repudiation, a series of sentiments that would not look out of place in a socialist text. The party that smashed the trade unions in the 1980s now promises to protect employee entitlements, such as the right to take time off work to look after a sick relative. It proposes caps on energy prices, a significant (and risky) intervention in the competitive marketplace that provides gas and electricity to consumers.
Why is Mrs. May doing this? First, because she can. Though the opinion polls are fluctuating a little, they point uniformly to a heavy defeat for the Labour Party and a result that will give the Tories comfortable room for maneuver in the lawmaking House of Commons. So if the prime minister wants to make her mark, and lay out a new direction for her party and country, now is the time to do so.
Second, she sees Britain’s departure from the European Union, which she quietly opposed before last year’s referendum, as an opportunity as well as a monumental challenge. Even before the vote in favor of Brexit, Mrs. May had come to believe that globalization, the digital revolution and unprecedented population mobility presented the 21st-century nation-state with a series of fundamental challenges and that the rules-based capitalist system and liberal democracy were in deep trouble if they did not address the grievances of those who felt left out, disenfranchised and unconsulted.
All of which chimes with her determination that the Conservative Party should speak to, and for, working-class communities as vigorously as it does with its traditional base of rural and affluent suburban voters. This has translated into a direct appeal to those who are “just about managing” (“Jams,” as this slice of the struggling middle class has become known by policy makers in the Civil Service), to ethnic minorities and to the vulnerable.
Mrs. May’s critics object that the rhetoric is not matched by reality. But she has already overturned one Tory shibboleth in pursuit of her broader project. It has long been an article of faith for Conservatives that as far as possible, wealth should be taxed lightly — a principle that has naturally recommended the party to the rich and made the poor suspicious of its motives.
As a former Conservative prime minister, John Major, put it, Tories believe in “wealth cascading down the generations” and are generally opposed to death taxes. Mrs. May’s immediate predecessor as party leader, David Cameron, made it possible for couples owning a property worth up to £1 million (about $1.3 million) to leave it to their descendants 
But the Tory manifesto proposed a dramatic shift in this doctrine: a new system in which home care of the elderly is paid for out of capital released from what they own. This may sound technical, but its significance is simple. The Conservatives now regard wealth as a legitimate target for the state to raid.
So great, indeed, is this ideological leap that the prime minister has already wobbled under pressure, 
On immigration, the prime minister is sticking to the net target she pursued as home secretary in Mr. Cameron’s government: fewer than 100,000 a year (the 
Most striking is her relentless focus upon society, its dreams and its pathologies. In recent decades, the Tories have been the party of the economy, rescuing a nation on the brink of industrial collapse and hyperinflation in the ’80s, and reducing the deficit during Mr. Cameron’s six-year tenure as prime minister.
Mrs. May insists that sustained economic growth remains her most important objective, especially as she embarks upon tortuous exit negotiations with the European Union, which she hopes will yield a strong trade deal. But the governing principle of Mayism is a conviction that politics is not simply a branch of economics; that the voters’ experience is not exclusively defined by disposable income; and that the nation’s prosperity is, in any case, distributed much too unevenly.
Caricatured by her political opponents as a stony-faced neo-Thatcherite, Mrs. May is nothing of the sort. There are plenty of her own members of Parliament who are troubled by the direction in which she is heading — another reason she is seeking a solid House of Commons majority that will enable her to govern as she pleases. Though her campaign slogan is “strong and stable leadership,” what she promises is nothing less than a root-and-branch transformation of Conservative ideology. Buckle up.