
LONDON — Having 
But on Monday, Mrs. May found that carefully crafted image at risk, as she agreed to revisit a controversial proposal to put a hard cap on the assets that residents who receive long-term care at home may own. The proposal, widely derided as a “dementia tax,” raised such an uproar that Mrs. May was forced to beat a hasty retreat.
The proposal was introduced on Thursday as part of the governing 
But the proposal would have required long-term care patients to forfeit all but 100,000 pounds (around $130,000) of their assets, including the value of their property.
Widespread criticism of Mrs. May’s plan by the opposition Labour Party among others, reported disquiet within the Conservative Party and a significant drop in the Tories’ lead in opinion polls seem to have prompted her speedy change of heart.
The issue is politically delicate because it affects many older people who vote more regularly than the young, and who provide an important electoral base for the Conservative Party.
On Monday, Mrs. May retreated by promising that she would consult with lawmakers on an introducing an “absolute limit” on the amount that people will have to pay out of pocket for long-term care — known in Britain as “social care” — and she added that no one would have to sell their home to pay for care while they were alive.
Though Mrs. May’s latest statement did not promise a specific cap, it is nonetheless a significant change to her manifesto.
Mrs. May’s about-face awoke a largely dreary election campaign, with her critics claiming that, far from demonstrating the strong and stable leadership she promised, the prime minister was “weak and wobbling.”
For her part, Mrs. May called her shift a “clarification,” and she accused the leader of the Labour Party, Jeremy Corbyn, of scaremongering and making “fake claims.”
Yet there was no disguising the fact that Monday’s announcement was a setback in a contest in which most analysts still expect the Conservatives to achieve an easy victory.
It is not the first time Mrs. May has been forced into a quick and ignominious retreat over policy. In March, her chancellor of the Exchequer, 
Critics seized on Mrs. May’s latest announcement. “She is unable to stick to her own manifesto for more than four days,” said Andrew Gwynne, election coordinator for the Labour Party. “And by failing to put a figure for a cap on social care costs, she has only added to the uncertainty for millions of older people and their families.”
Angus Robertson, deputy leader of the Scottish National Party, described the statement as “an utter humiliation” that betrayed the reality of the leadership “of a weak and wobbling prime minister,” while Tim Farron, leader of the Liberal Democrats, said Mrs. May had suffered a “manifesto meltdown.”
The first news of Monday’s policy shift was offered on Twitter by the former chancellor of the Exchequer, George Osborne, who was fired by Mrs. May last year, after she became prime minister in the aftermath of 
Mr. Osborne now edits The Evening Standard, a London newspaper, which described the change as an “astonishing U-turn.”
“The Tory manifesto has only just come out, and already it is being rewritten,” 
Critics tend to blame such mistakes on Mrs. May’s habit of trusting only a small circle of advisers, including her two closest aides, Fiona Hill and Nick Timothy. British news reports blamed Mr. Timothy for introducing the proposal into the manifesto at the last minute, without broader discussion among Mrs. May’s most senior colleagues.
But there may be an added element of political miscalculation at work. Given her earlier lead in the opinion polls, she appeared to have concluded that she could afford to seek a mandate for a measure that could be unpopular — including reducing some of the advantages enjoyed by older voters, whose incomes have been protected in recent years — while younger Britons have faced growing economic challenges, particularly with high housing costs and stagnant wages.
In addition to the changes to social care, Mrs. May proposed a less advantageous system for automatic raises in pensions, and plans to restrict help for older people with their heating costs to the poorest.
Such policies seemed devised to restrict welfare payments to those who rely on them and to redress intergenerational economic imbalances, and they are part of Mrs. May’s 
However, poll numbers show that the race is tightening, and Mrs. May’s manifesto not only gave the Labour Party some valuable ammunition but also prompted criticism from a wider pool, too. Charles Powell, who once advised Margaret Thatcher, described Mrs. May’s agenda as a “
The debacle also illustrated how the election campaign has so far been dominated by domestic issues, rather than serious discussion of how Britain should confront leaving the bloc, its biggest challenge in decades.
In the meantime, the European Union on Monday agreed on its strategy for exit talks, which are likely to begin within two weeks of Britain’s election on June 8.