
LONDON — Brexit. Failing hospitals. Shoddy schools. Social care for the aged. Islamic State. Donald Trump. Fox hunting.
Fox hunting?
In what seemed at first to be a throwaway line on the campaign trail in advance of the general election on June 8, Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain 
Of all the issues confronting her, fox hunting seemed barely to rise to the surface of a troubled world in which Britain finds itself. The country is scrambling to find a new niche after the decision to leave the European Union and the rise of an unpredictable new administration in Washington.
So what was the point?
Her avowal followed a tabloid newspaper’s disclosure that fox hunting’s supporters are hoping to use a projected victory by Mrs. May’s Conservative Party to press for the repeal of legislation that consigned centuries of hunting with dogs to the history books, along with bear baiting, cock fighting and other pursuits once deemed totemic of a bucolic, rural England. With last week’s publication of her party’s manifesto, Mrs. May 
But repeal may not be all plain sailing. Her original remarks to a restricted audience in Yorkshire — before the Manchester bombing this week raised grislier challenges — drew reactions that showed the somber depths of passions associated with a debate that consumed much energy in the Labour administration of Tony Blair.
For some, the hunt represents the class struggle waged by those outside the privileged loop of riders in their scarlet coats atop glistening steeds, pounding across the countryside with packs of hounds baying for the blood of a hapless fellow quadruped. Prince Charles, the heir to the throne, for instance, consorted with his longtime love (and now his wife), Camilla Parker-Bowles, before his marriage to Princess Diana, at the prestigious 
For supporters, though, the hunt is a statement of rural identity, transcending distinctions of social status or concerns about animal cruelty. The fox’s death is quick, pro-hunt advocates say in response to the anti-hunt depiction of a barbaric, painful demise, in which the quarry is torn excruciatingly asunder.
Hunts, the argument goes, provide jobs and purpose in rural areas and are not merely the preserve of the upper crust. (It helps, of course, to be able to maintain a well-bred horse and a swanky S.U.V. to tow the trailer.) Even after the ban, the hunters still rode out, ostensibly to follow scented trails laid in advance by (human) runners to draw the hounds into pursuit.
Ever since the Conservatives returned to power — first in a coalition in 2010, then with a narrow majority in 2015 — they have promised to permit a free ballot in Parliament on fox hunting, enabling legislators to vote without any formal instruction from party managers. Until now, though, given everything else that was going on — first, Liberal Democrat coalition partners who supported the ban, then the Brexit imbroglio that undid David Cameron’s brief second term — that vote never happened.
Which is why Mrs. May is presenting repeal as a question of continuity and consistency. “Personally,” 
By nodding toward the fox-hunting lobby, of course, Mrs. May is shoring up her flank, securing a traditional Conservative vote in the shires that might be put off by her iconoclastic and potentially damaging embrace of social and economic policies designed to court what she calls “ordinary working families” in “the mainstream” of British society. In fact, there is every sign that in its quest for a landslide victory, the May campaign is hoping to vacuum up every vote it can, replicating its success in local elections this month, when the Conservatives picked up the support of Brexiteers from the failing U.K. Independence Party, once a magnetic rallying point for Euroskepticism and a thorn in Mr. Cameron’s side.
There was even a report in 
There have, unexpectedly, been missteps. Last week, for instance, Mrs. May 
On the hunting issue, at least, Mrs. May has left herself room for maneuver. By promising a free vote on the law’s repeal, she will placate the hunt enthusiasts, without tethering herself to an outcome that is far from a foregone conclusion. Indeed, Conservative candidates who are challenging a troubled Labour Party in close-to-call urban heartlands may not be nearly as inclined toward fox hunting as Mrs. May professes to be.
“I cannot see many Conservative votes for fox hunting in marginal seats we are hoping to win,” 