
LONDON — In voting for local councils on Thursday, just five weeks before the British general election, the governing Conservative Party made significant gains, the opposition Labour Party did badly and the centrist Liberal Democrats had mixed success.
The results, released on Friday, are a disaster for the far-right, anti-immigrant U.K. Independence Party, which pushed for Britain’s exit from the European Union but saw many of its voters move toward the Conservatives, who promised to end unrestricted immigration while carrying out the divorce.
In contrast, the results display the strength of the Conservatives under Prime Minister Theresa May and the weakness of Labour under its left-wing leader, Jeremy Corbyn, going into the June 8 general election. Mrs. May hopes to increase her majority in Parliament sharply as she tries to negotiate a good deal for Britain as it withdraws from the European Union.
Normally, governing parties are punished in local elections, but in England and Wales, at least, there was a sharp swing to the Conservatives from Labour, in what appeared to be a protest vote against Mr. Corbyn and his management of the opposition. The problem for Labour is that previous UKIP voters, many of whom were Labour loyalists, are moving to the Conservatives instead of returning to Labour. This has raised the chances of a sweeping Conservative victory next month, while Labour has collapsed in its former stronghold in Scotland.
John Curtice, a professor of politics at the University of Strathclyde in Glasgow, said the Conservatives had, so far, put in their best election performance since at least 2008, with an average swing of seven percentage points from Labour to the Conservatives, known as Tories, since the last comparable local elections in 2013.
He told the BBC that the Conservatives appeared to have been the main beneficiaries of a sharp decline in support for UKIP, which may be on the verge of extinction as a party if it does not perform well next month. “Labour is not showing much signs of being a credible contender to the Tories,” Professor Curtice said.
Michael Fallon, a Conservative who is Britain’s defense secretary, said the outcome was “very encouraging.” But he was eager to attack complacency ahead of June 8, saying that the local results were not an “accurate prediction” of a general election.
Mrs. May said, “I will not take anything for granted.”
John McDonnell, Mr. Corbyn’s closest ally, put the best face on the results by saying that Labour had not done as badly as some had predicted. This was not the “wipeout that many commentators were forecasting,” he said, adding that the party was building a “solid base” for the general election.
Labour did reasonably well in Wales, a stronghold, although it did badly in Scotland, where in early counting it had already lost 
Mr. McDonnell urged voters to wait to see Labour’s party platform, or manifesto, for the general election before deciding how to cast their ballots in June.
But Labour seems on course for a defeat next month, with most commentators simply speculating on the size of a Conservative majority. The Liberal Democrats, the party that has been most opposed to a so-called Brexit and promises voters a second referendum after a settlement has been negotiated, is expected to make some gains in southern England. But the Conservatives are expected to make big inroads into Labour’s heartland in northern England, from Labour voters who favor leaving the bloc.
The Labour Party under Mr. Corbyn has been ambivalent about Britain leaving the European Union, showing only tepid support for both the “remain” camp in the June referendum and for exiting now. While a third of Conservatives voted to remain in the European Union, they are sticking with their party. And while many Labour voters were passionately in favor of leaving, they are unhappy with Mr. Corbyn and are contemplating voting for the Conservatives next month.
The voting on Thursday was to elect mayors of six new city regions, as well as around 4,800 seats on local councils — all of the councils in Scotland and Wales, and more than 30 in England.
While Labour lost a significant number of council seats, it won important regional mayoral posts in Greater Manchester, behind a former home secretary, Andy Burnham, as well as winning in Liverpool City and Doncaster.
But in another surprise, the Conservatives won the mayoralty in Tees Valley, as well as a tightly contested mayoralty in the West Midlands. Labour’s candidate there, Sion Simon, a member of the European Parliament, was expected to win, but the Conservative contender, Andy Street, had a narrow victory. Mr. Street is a prominent businessman who gave up earnings of around $1.3 million a year as managing director of John Lewis, an employee-owned department store, to take part in the election.
The new mayoral districts were created under a deal to spread power away from London and the center, with local authorities being invited to combine into larger regional tiers, taking on some strategic responsibilities such as transportation and planning.