
Will London fall?
It is a question as evocative as it is provocative.
It was also the headline in The New York Times at the top of 
Ms. Lyall looked closely at the British capital: a teeming multicultural metropolis of 8.7 million people, with a Muslim mayor, where some native Britons no longer feel at home. London is a center of international culture and commerce whose resilience and openness became a symbol of postwar European unity. It’s expected that in two years it will no longer be a part of that European experiment.
In Britain, and around the world, the response to the article was swift, if hardly unanimous. Readers, commentators in the British news media, members of Parliament and people across social media weighed in and continued to do so on Thursday.
No matter how rapidly the media landscape is changing, headlines still matter. “Will London Fall?” clearly struck a nerve; some people reacted to the headline more than the article. Some viewed it as unduly inflammatory or sensationalistic. 
Over the centuries, London has proved itself time and again adaptable to whatever fate has thrown at it. Brexit is just the latest challenge that this great global city faces. Now is the time for all Londoners to stand together rather than talking down our prospects. — 
Will London Fall? flattens the EU referendum decision into diversity v. isolationism, a contrast which is partly true, but also in many ways fails to understand the striking changes in national identity which are happening under the surface of the UK. —
Not everyone was so high-minded. To some people on Twitter, London had already succumbed to immigration, globalization and more. Venom seeped through some Twitter feeds, reminiscent of the anger that surfaced during the vote, to the annoyance of some others.
Some readers complained that an American newspaper (if one with a sizable newsroom in London and bureaus around the globe) should not turn its eyes to London and Britain’s planned exit from the union when foreigners could make similar prognostications about the fate of the United States in the wake of a similarly surprising voting result: the election of Donald J. Trump.
The metropolis that globalization created may well be the capital of the world. But after the “Brexit” referendum, its future as an international crossroads is far from certain.
Some British conservatives and segments of the British news media interpreted the article as a frontal assault by New York itself on the British capital, which might be a surprise to the City of New York.
From 
“As NYC Slams Our Capital...Start Spreading the news: London is top of the heap”
So went the headline to an Op-Ed by Gerard Lyons, a British economist and writer, in which he defended Brexit as good for London and for Britain. To help illustrate the piece, The Sun embedded a small photo of Queen Elizabeth II with the following:
We have the Queen. They just have Queens, a grim borough.
Ouch, zinger. Jackson Heights and Flushing, rise up.
From 
“Viral hashtags are a bellwether for the spirit of a city: in the hours after last month’s terrorist attack in Westminster, #WeAreNotAfraid trended on Twitter. It’s characteristic of a city that gets annoyed by attacks on its freedoms.”
From 
“HOW DARE THEY! Tory MP Kwasi Kwarteng blasts The New York Times over an article questioning whether London would SURVIVE Brexit.”
The article also stirred a discussion on social media about British humor, whether the article had misread a sketch written by the British satirist Patrick Kidd and whether Americans were humor-challenged, anyway. Ms. Lyall, who lived in London for 15 years, 
In the spirit of 
“Someone once wrote that papers should use a type called ‘ironic’ like italic but slanting backwards to help Americans.” — 
Beneath all the noise, many readers saw the article as a powerful and melancholy essay for a London that for decades has been a place of opportunity for all Europeans.
“London is or was sort of the capital of Europe (and by extension the EU) — at least culturally and economically. I studied in Cambridge in the mid-to-late 90s and my brother and sister studied at the London School of Economics (LSE). They did (or are doing) their Ph.D.s still there. My brother lives in London now with his wife. None of that would have or will now happen. It is an end of an era and a period in time. London will become now again more English and maybe more Asian (or American). EU cosmopolites will be searching for a new place to call their own. Britain will lose massive amounts of money and talent.” — Pekka Kohonen of Stockholm, commenting via The New York Times