
BRUSSELS — Jean-Claude Juncker couldn’t resist a little dig, and it drew a big laugh.
Speaking on Friday at a conference in Florence, Italy, he began 
Why? “Because slowly but surely, English is losing importance in Europe.”
He was kidding, of course, as an aide confirmed later. But then again, maybe he wasn’t.
Mr. Juncker, you see, is the man with the “Brexit” problem on his desk. As the president of the European Commission, he helps oversee the back and forth with London over how, to the irritation of its neighbors, Britain will go about 
The union has 
That’s not surprising. English is the leading language of global commerce, diplomacy, technology and tourism, and it is the most-taught second language in Europe. If anything, its influence is growing, with or without the blessing of Brussels bureaucrats, who will go on using it after Britain pulls out partly because Ireland and Malta, which have English as an official language, will still be members of the union.
All that doesn’t stop many French speakers from resenting English’s primacy, though, nor from hoping that the language might recede a bit after Britain leaves the European Union, the process known as Brexit. That is the sentiment that Mr. Juncker mined in Florence, to the applause of the audience.
Mr. Juncker is from Luxembourg, where everyone is fluent in several tongues because almost no one else understands Luxembourgish. When he speaks in public, he noted, he is “always hesitating between two or three languages.”
In French, he offered more serious remarks aimed at French voters, who on Sunday 
“I would like them to understand what I’m saying about Europe and about nations,” he said.
He listed the European Union’s achievements, including the creation of the euro currency, and said the bloc had unified the Continent peacefully for the first time in history. Realistically, with its share of the world population dwindling, Europe can wield significant influence in the world only by sticking together, he said.
Mr. Juncker’s English jest might be viewed by some in Brussels as ill advised after the cross-Channel war of words that raged this past week over 
Mrs. May said the leak misrepresented her country’s negotiating position in the Brexit talks and 
Donald Tusk, the president of the European Council, 
Mr. Juncker’s zinger on Friday did not seem to do much to unruffle British feathers. The Daily Express, a right-wing newspaper, called it an “outrageous SWIPE at Britain” in 