
It’s one thing to take the measure of a place after having lived there for a long time and knowing it well; it’s another to do so on your second visit. Sergey Ponomarev, a Moscow-based photographer who has done extensive work for The New York Times, has a great deal of experience in the Middle East, where he has long covered various conflicts (he recently received a Robert Capa gold medal for his work in Iraq). When David Furst, The Times’s international picture editor, asked him to photograph London for a 
But it was precisely for that reason — Mr. Ponomarev’s outsider’s perspective— that Mr. Furst chose him for the assignment.
“London is not an unfamiliar city, or an unphotographed city,” Mr. Furst said. “We wanted people to stop, slow down and look again, with fresh eyes.”
Among the themes they hoped to address, Mr. Furst said, were “the diversity of the city, the question of will London fall, the fact that London was deregulated and there was a great influx of capital.”
He added, “Aside from ‘don’t mess up,’ we talked a lot about how Sergey might try to convey the feel, not just the look, of the city.”
The series’ first installment appears in print starting on the front page; the article’s online version also contains slow-motion video. Each features the city’s people in their daily places — a square, a schoolyard, a sidewalk. The black-and-white images are meant to hold viewers in place so they might consider the city anew.
“I decided I wanted to see it from a very difficult angle,” Mr. Ponomarev said.
Over the course of three weeks, Mr. Ponomarev walked all over the city — as many as 12 miles in a day — and shot hundreds of photos. Along the way he also began to experiment with slow-motion videos, taking inspiration, he said, from photographers like John Stanmeyer, who uses the format to render subtlety and quiet changes of mood a still photo cannot. Mr. Ponomarev had not intended them to be used in the piece, necessarily, but he posted some examples 
“It’s like a photograph, but an extended moment that happens a second before and seconds after the click,” Mr. Ponomarev said. “You can understand what a photographer sees and what he thinks when he makes a photograph.”
(Mr. Ponomarev’s originals were in color; the decision to display the final photos and videos in black and white, Mr. Furst said, was to suggest a sense of occasion.)
The approach proved apt, particularly for the scene at the Millennium Bridge over the River Thames: Foot traffic breaks around the viewer’s standpoint at a snail’s pace, giving the jostle both depth and momentum. The onrushing flow of people seems indifferent but structured, slow but inevitable; it is difficult to look away.
Mr. Ponomarev let himself be swept into the city’s circulatory system as well; at one point he found himself caught in one of its eddies at 
“It’s an almost empty street during the day, but during lunchtime all the office clerks rush out of their office buildings to get snacks, and then go back in,” Mr. Ponomarev said. Where the glass and steel of the Gherkin backdrops the busy crosswalk, “you have several layers and reflections and straight lines, and then you just see those faces of people.”
The scene also made Mr. Ponomarev think about how this approach made possible the study of people in an almost frozen moment. The people are from different places, he said, but they have mutual goals and live and work peacefully together in the same environment.
In that brief scene at the station, a sliver of the city’s 8.7 million inhabitants intersected, scattering light.
“In a way it doesn’t matter what kind of backgrounds you have,” Mr. Ponomarev said. “The story is about diversity.”