
SACRAMENTO — Two leaders of the successful referendum to remove Britain from the European Union were recently in California, where they said favorable things about the newest version of a plan to split the state in pieces. As Arron Banks 
Some news reports about the 
While creating a new nation would tear the United States asunder, redrawing state boundaries is nowhere near as unthinkable — or as dangerous — as some suggest.
“We should explore creating more states so we have a democracy that’s closer to the people,” said Scott Baugh, a former Republican assemblyman who met with Mr. Banks and Nigel Farage when they were in Orange County to receive an award. California has nearly 40 million people and is growing. At what point is the population too large for a single state? he wondered in a recent interview. That’s a question Californians have been asking since the early days of the state’s existence.
When a motley crew of American settlers, native-born “Californios” and European immigrants assembled in 
Since California achieved statehood in 1850, residents have floated dozens of plans to break it up. A 
“We are doing deep research on everything from infrastructure to higher education to safety to water to the electric grid to politics to income levels to health care,” Mr. Draper said.
I’ve flown the State of Jefferson flag at my little ranch, a reminder of a continuing partition movement dating to World War II. Residents of California’s northern counties and Oregon’s southern counties complain that their tiny populations’ concerns get short shrift here in Sacramento and in Salem, Ore. 
As an example, 
Yreka is the county seat of Siskiyou, which is physically larger than 
And it’s not just a problem in California’s desolate regions. Even Democratic officials in the blue-collar 
Like many Californians, I haven’t embraced any particular proposal, but there’s no reason current boundaries can’t be adjusted to meet the needs of a changing population. Residents of Chico could still visit San Francisco on the weekend, just as I can now travel to Reno, Nev., to play the slots. But a partitioned California — 
Some readers may scoff at this seemingly pie-in-the-sky notion, but 