
LONDON — Britain’s prime minister and Scotland’s leader met on Monday to discuss the most consequential of questions: Will Britain’s departure from the European Union cause Scotland — joined with England since 1707 — to leave the United Kingdom?
But for The Daily Mail, one of Britain’s most popular newspapers, the question that mattered was: Which leader had better legs?
“Never mind Brexit, who won Legs-it!” its cover on Tuesday blared.
DAILY MAIL: Blueprint to save the NHS 
Many readers were 
“This is 2017,” Chuka Umunna, a Labour lawmaker, wrote on 
Others, perhaps more jaded, were 
“The Daily Mail do this regularly,” said Roy Greenslade, a professor of journalism at City University in London and a columnist for the liberal newspaper The Guardian. “And this is a particularly venal example, but if you look at it day on day, there are plenty of similar examples.”
Professor Greenslade said the blatant sexism was done unapologetically, “with a sense of confidence on the understanding that they can’t see what the fuss is all about.”
Mrs. May and Ms. Sturgeon met at a hotel in Glasgow on Monday, two days before the British government was 
“But what stands out here are the legs — and the vast expanse on show,” Sarah Vine, the author of the Daily Mail article, wrote. Ms. Vine 
The article went on to describe each woman’s stance.
“Knees tightly together,” Mrs. May opted for “a studied pose that reminds us that for all her confidence, she is ever the vicar’s daughter,” the article said.
Ms. Sturgeon’s legs, described as “undeniably more shapely shanks,” were “more flirty, tantalizingly crossed.” The writer then called the Scottish leader’s posture “a direct attempt at seduction: Her stiletto is not quite dangling off her foot, but it could be.”
The Daily Mail 
“Even though they are great champions of Theresa May — and were champions of Mrs. Thatcher — they still basically see women in a 1950s role, as an adornment,” Professor Greenslade said, referring to former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher. “That’s why so much of their editorial is about how women look.”
In 2014, for example, The Daily Mail compiled photographs of female lawmakers entering or leaving 10 Downing Street, the prime minister’s office and residence, during meetings about a cabinet reshuffle by David Cameron, Mrs. May’s predecessor. The article, with the headline “Esther, the Queen of the Downing Street Catwalk,” referring to one of the lawmakers, Esther McVey, also caused 
To the latest criticism, The Daily Mail issued the response “For goodness sake, get a life!” Its statement called the article “a sidebar alongside a serious political story” that appeared “in an 84-page paper packed with important news and analysis.” The statement added that the newspaper had backed Mrs. May when she ran to succeed Mr. Cameron as leader of the governing Conservative Party.
The newspaper added that it had often commented on the appearance of politicians, including “Mr. Cameron’s waistline”; the hair of the former chancellor of the Exchequer, George Osborne; and the attire of Jeremy Corbyn, leader of the opposition Labour Party.
If the statement reflected a certain sensitivity to the negative coverage, so did later versions of the front page.
Observers noted that it was tweaked in print, for a later edition, to add the words: “Sarah Vine’s lighthearted verdict on the big showdown.” Some critics said that the 
“I think people maybe have had a slight sense of humor failure,” said Ms. Vine, speaking on the BBC radio show “World at One.” “What we’re doing is creating a more approachable version of the story,” she added. Ms. Vine also defended the cover change, saying she stood by what she had written.
Professor Greenslade saw the late change in the cover language as a belated attempt to pre-empt a controversy. “It is a pretty pathetic excuse,” he said. “When you see that front page, it’s quite clear what they meant: Don’t worry about the politics, just look at the legs.”