
LONDON — 
Ms. Patel, 45, resigned after breaching ministerial rules by 
This new political turmoil is likely to increase speculation about the strength of Mrs. May’s grip on power, and comes at a tense moment in discussions on quitting the European Union, or Brexit. The resignation also follows a series of sleaze and sexual harassment allegations in Parliament, which prompted another cabinet minister, Defense Secretary Michael Fallon, 
The litany of accusations against Ms. Patel — who was summoned home from a working visit to Africa — made the minister’s resignation almost inevitable, turning her slow-motion departure from government into a protracted political pantomime.
The progress of Ms. Patel’s return flight from Kenya was monitored by thousands online, and on Twitter, users created a hashtag 
Television cameras were on hand at Heathrow Airport to catch Ms. Patel’s arrival and her walk to a waiting official ministerial limousine that took her to London and eventually to 10 Downing Street to meet with Mrs. May.
That proved to be one of her last such journeys; within a few hours, Ms. Patel issued a letter accepting that her “actions fell below the high standards that are expected of a secretary of state,” and offering a “fulsome apology,” alongside her resignation.
Mrs. May accepted the resignation — rather than firing Ms. Patel — adding that, because “further details have come to light” since a discussion on Monday, it was “right that you have decided to resign.”
Critics accused Ms. Patel of freelancing on foreign policy, and her failure to be completely candid about the extent of her activities ultimately sealed her fate, as information kept emerging. Her private meetings included one with 
Israel’s 
Mrs. May’s office, meanwhile, denied reports in Britain’s Jewish Chronicle that her aides had instructed Ms. Patel not to include one of her meetings on a list of such contacts that she published on Monday, in an effort to close out the gathering crisis.
For Mrs. May, the episode has been a particular headache because Ms. Patel is a passionate supporter of Brexit within a cabinet that was constructed carefully to balance views on Europe. Earlier this week, Mrs. May had declared the matter closed after accepting an apology.
In the short term, Ms. Patel’s departure has distracted attention from calls for the resignation of Boris Johnson, the foreign secretary, whose 
Only last week, Mr. Fallon resigned as defense secretary amid a swirling series of 
The Cabinet Office is investigating claims made against two more of Mrs. May’s ministers, including Damian Green, a close ally and friend, and effectively Mrs. May’s deputy.
After losing her majority in June 
There are big tests to come for a government in such disarray. Later this month the chancellor of the Exchequer, Philip Hammond, will deliver a keenly awaited budget speech that is now fraught with political danger.
Mr. Hammond leads the cabinet faction that wants to soften the impact of Brexit, and to protect the economy by negotiating a standstill transition, under which Britain would apply current rules for two years after its departure from the bloc in March 2019.
That has exposed him to attacks from hard-line supporters of Brexit, who want a clean break from the European Union, and some right-wing critics want Mrs. May to fire Mr. Hammond for being insufficiently optimistic about Brexit.
Mrs. May faces an even bigger challenge in unlocking stalled negotiations over Brexit, before a summit meeting next month with European Union leaders. To do so, Mrs. May will soon need to indicate that Britain would pay the bloc significantly more to settle outstanding commitments to the European Union than the roughly 20 billion euros 
Such an offer could prove highly controversial within her cabinet, which is divided over the need to soften the impact on the economy of Britain’s departure. Yet failure to offer billions more could mean that European leaders refuse to start talks on a transition after Brexit, and on permanent new trading arrangements.
Dissatisfaction with Mrs. May’s inability to stay ahead of events is growing. Last month, a Conservative Party lawmaker, Grant Shapps, sought — and failed — to orchestrate an 
Under the party’s internal rules, it would take 48 Tory lawmakers to force a leadership contest. The events of the last week may have swollen that group of discontented Conservatives.
Fortunately for Mrs. May, her critics have yet to unite around a candidate to succeed her.