
DUBLIN — Ireland’s political turmoil deepened on Friday, pushing the minority government in Dublin toward collapse just weeks before it is set to play a central role in negotiations over Britain’s planned departure from the European Union.
The government of Prime Minister Leo Varadkar is able to remain in power in Ireland only with the support of the main opposition party that, on Friday, submitted a motion of no-confidence in his deputy prime minister — part an enduring dispute over her role in a policing scandal.
The move has consequences on two, interwoven fronts. First, it could lead to a snap election. And second, an election campaign would probably affect a European Union summit meeting in Brussels in mid-December, adding a further imponderable to the halting diplomacy over 
The summit meeting is supposed to determine whether Britain has satisfied the other European Union members that negotiations have made sufficient progress to initiate parallel bargaining on a trade deal between London and the 27 remaining countries in the bloc.
One of the main issues holding up the process is 
Northern Ireland is facing 
Mr. Varadkar, who was due to play a significant role in the European summit meeting in December, is determined to avoid a return to 
In Dublin, the parties seemed deadlocked on Friday. Micheal Martin, the leader of the opposition Fianna Fail, said an election “can be avoided” if Mr. Varadkar fired his deputy, Frances Fitzgerald.
Opposition leaders have questioned Ms. Fitzgerald’s role in a previous government that they accuse of failing to shield a whistle-blower who exposed police corruption.
Ms. Fitzgerald could defuse the crisis herself by resigning. But she has shown no sign she will do so, and Mr. Varadkar’s Fine Gael party has defended her strongly so far. Michael D’Arcy, a finance minister, said Ms. Fitzgerald “cannot resign and should not resign.”
He told the news agency Reuters that a withdrawal of the no-confidence motion was the only way to defuse the crisis. T he motion is set to be debated by the Parliament in Dublin on Tuesday, possibly precipitating a snap election.
“I think we’re heading for an election before Christmas,” Mr. D’Arcy said.
An election campaign could influence how Mr. Varadkar approaches the summit meeting in December and whether he is seen by other European leaders as a weakened figure with few prospects of political survival.
Some analysts suggested that he might use the meeting to drum up political support at home among Ireland’s anti-Brexit voters by adopting a tough line against Britain.
The Irish foreign minister, Simon Coveney, said his country “does not need” an election at this stage when there are “some really, really serious issues for the government to manage in the national interest.”
He also said on Thursday that the government wanted the British authorities to clarify their intentions on maintaining an open border with Northern Ireland. He said that was a prerequisite for Dublin to allow the broader Brexit discussions to move to trade talks.
Apart from the Irish border arrangement, the European Union wants Britain to reach agreement on two other big issues: a financial settlement to leave the European Union, and legal protection for European Union citizens in Britain.