
Europe is facing multiple tribulations in 2017, engulfed in uncertainties over terrorism, borders, migration, economics and President Trump’s new America First message booming from across the Atlantic.
“It’s not the first time Europe has been challenged by crisis,” said 
Here are some of the potentially disruptive issues and events looming for the year that could reshape — or at least deepen — the fractures in the European Union, a 28-nation bloc of more than a half-billion people and the world’s largest single free-trade zone.
Negotiations for Britain’s exit from the European Union, known as “Brexit,” the outcome of a 
Big banks and other multinational companies with operations in London and elsewhere in Britain are not awaiting the outcome of the negotiations, expected to last two years, that will determine the scope of the country’s changed status. They are making contingency plans to move thousands of jobs elsewhere. Other European Union members are eager to get those jobs. Their leaders also have suggested that Britain must be penalized economically to discourage further defections from the bloc.
Britain’s decision also threatens to alter its geography and possibly stoke political instability. Scotland and Northern Ireland had wanted to stay within the European Union, and may now move to leave Britain. A new
Guy Verhofstadt, the European Union’s negotiator for Britain’s exit, 
Turkey has been negotiating to become a European Union member 
Increasingly exasperated with the European Union, Mr. Erdogan has suggested that he 
Nonetheless, European officials are loath to suspend the negotiations for fear that Mr. Erdogan will scrap an 
The country that came to symbolize Europe’s economic travails a few years ago has receded from the headlines somewhat, obscured by Brexit, fears of terrorist attacks in European cities and coming elections in the Netherlands, France and Germany. But Greece’s economy remains anemic and in need of more debt relief.
Despite three bailouts in five years, poverty rates are increasing and the unemployment rate is Europe’s highest. Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras of the leftist Syriza Party, who rose to power in 2015 on his defiance of Greece’s creditors and threat to leave the European Union’s single-currency zone, 
Negotiations for further restructuring of Greece’s debts, involving Germany and the International Monetary Fund, also have encountered difficulties. “If the I.M.F. and Germany cannot find a way out, this is a serious problem,” said Dimitrios Argyroulis, a political economics scholar at the University of Sheffield.
The chronically troubled economy of Italy, the European Union’s fourth largest, has aroused growing concern as possibly the next Greek-style debt crisis. The main reason is the 
Italy’s debt levels also have irked Germany, Europe’s strongest economy, where leaders are reluctant to help finance any bailout. “The current developments do not bode well and point to the possibility of repeating the Greece disaster on a much larger scale,” Geopolitical Futures, a forecasting firm, said in a Jan. 20
The regional parliament of Spain’s semiautonomous Catalonia region voted in November 2015 to begin a process to achieve independence in 2017 — an outcome the Spanish government has vowed to block. But the secessionists, 
The European Union and United States have closely coordinated their regimen of economic sanctions imposed on Russia in 2014, a response to Russia’s annexation of the Crimean Peninsula and military actions in eastern Ukraine. But President Trump has injected uncertainty into Europe over a unified stand toward Russia, suggesting he wants to ease or terminate the sanctions. Mr. Trump, whose amity toward Russia is a political issue in the United States, 
While Mr. Trump’s subordinates have sought to reassure European Union leaders that the United States remains a reliable ally, doubts have been planted. Frank-Walter Steinmeier, the foreign minister of Germany at the time Trump made those remarks, said they had “caused astonishment.”
Emboldened by the momentum of Brexit and Mr. Trump, nationalist politicians espousing hostility toward the European Union and Muslim immigrants have made strong gains in campaigns for coming elections in three European countries, including the two largest.
In the Netherlands, where a national vote is set for March 15, the populist lawmaker Geert Wilders, who wants to slash immigration and 
But in a sign of Mr. Wilders’s influence, Mr. Rutte has taken his own hard-right turn, 
In France, where presidential elections are set for April 23 with a runoff between the two top candidates on May 7, the rise of the extreme right has been a dominant theme. Marine Le Pen, leader of the National Front, has said she hopes to 
Germany holds federal elections Sept. 24, which will determine the future of Chancellor Angela Merkel. But her positions on European unity, open borders and generosity toward refugees have seriously weakened her popularity. Mr. Trump mocked and insulted her during his campaign, describing his Democratic adversary, 
At the same time, Germany’s biggest political story is the rapid ascent of the far-right Alternative for Germany party, which has
Even if Ms. Merkel survives to win a fourth term as chancellor, political analysts see her as a weakened figure, and at the worst possible time.
“Europe has never needed a strong Merkel more,” Ian Bremmer, founder and president of the Eurasia Group, a political risk consultant firm in Washington, said this month in an