
The biggest proxy fight against a company has begun, and it’s Procter & Gamble against Nelson Peltz.
Mr. Peltz’s Trian 
Procter & Gamble had already rejected a demand from Trian to make Mr. Peltz a director, according to 
The company has experienced sluggish sales growth and it had been under pressure from another activist investor, 
The company’s annual meeting is scheduled for the fall, later than many rivals’, and Mr. Peltz’s move adds to a list of activist campaigns in recent months:
“Brexit” talks resume today, and David Davis, Britain’s top negotiator on the country’s departure from the European Union, has said he wants to “get down to business.”
But Prime Minister Theresa May’s cabinet members appear busier with another task: fighting among themselves.
The chancellor of the Exchequer, Philip Hammond, has 
The government is still divided over whether to seek a so-called soft Brexit, which Mr. Hammond has called for, or a clean break. Mr. Hammond wants the transition to last two years, while the trade secretary, Liam Fox, wants it to be a couple of months.
“It depends how long we need to put in place new customs systems, new migration systems — these things can’t be magicked up overnight,” Mr. Hammond 
The negotiations have brought other initiatives to a standstill, including a six-year push to impose a tax on financial transactions, as the European Union tries to redraw the financial map ahead of Britain’s departure from the bloc, 
Mr. Hammond, faced with reports that he was 
One major point of contention for the talks is Britain’s financial obligations to the European Union after it leaves.
Last week, 
Mr. Hammond has said that Britain would “honor its debts.”
Desktop Metal, a start-up that works on 3-D printing using metal, is to announce on Monday that it has raised $115 million in a new financing round.
The start-up focuses on letting engineering teams quickly build complex metal parts for prototypes in their offices, instead of waiting for models to be machined or cast from metal.
This round will bring Desktop Metal’s total fund-raising to $212 million. The company said the new money would help finance sales and international growth, and expand research and development.
The round was led by GV, formerly known as Google Ventures, and New Enterprise Associates. Others in the round include:
• Kleiner Perkins Caulfield & Byers
• Shenzhen Capital Group
• Saudi Aramco
“We are on the brink of an exciting transformation in how metal parts will be designed, prototyped, and ultimately mass-produced,” Ric Fulop, Desktop Metal’s co-founder and chief executive, said in a statement.
And Josh Wolfe, a co-founder of Lux, told DealBook: “We became early investors betting on Ric as a serial entrepreneur, a breakthrough tech and huge market potential, but now in awe of the fastest execution and momentum we’ve ever seen, we’re scaling up our funding, in a big vote of confidence, to match the scale of their ambitions.”
Just as Amazon has revolutionized shopping, firms like Charles Schwab have been changing the investment industry by empowering wealth advisers who offer independent and conflict-free financial advice by relying on easy to use technology.
Registered investment advisers sitting on more than $4 trillion in assets 
Brokers are leaving top Wall Street houses to establish independent shops, farming out back-office and custodial responsibilities to firms like Schwab, TD Ameritrade and Fidelity.
Of the $2.9 trillion in assets that Charles Schwab oversees, $1.3 trillion comes from financial advisers — up from $863 billion in 2012. More than 7,500 registered investment advisers use Schwab to park assets. They can also call Schwab experts for help in setting up a business or for legal advice.
The most crucial thing that a back-office firm offers advisers, though, is a sense of security. Being able to tell a client that the assets are with Schwab, Fidelity or TD Ameritrade offers a peace of mind that advisers say is critical to their business.
“Without a good custodian,” said the 