
DUBLIN — Sinn Fein, the main Catholic nationalist party in Northern Ireland, has won its greatest share of legislative seats ever after a 
The election comes at a time of increased polarization and fears that Britain’s planned exit from the European Union could lead to customs and security checks along the border with Ireland, economic strife and a return to sectarian conflict. Never before has the Protestant majority, which has used its status to shape social policy and block efforts to merge with Ireland, been so threatened politically.
Sinn Fein won 27 of 90 available posts in the Northern Ireland Assembly. Its rival, the Democratic Unionist Party, made up of Protestants who support remaining a part of Britain, lost 10 seats and were left with 28. Voting took place on March 2.
Under the 1998 Good Friday Agreement, which brought an end to the decades-long sectarian strife known as the Troubles, Catholics and Protestants share governance of the region, along with the British government. The two parties must now form a new government within the next three weeks or else return to a period of “direct rule” from Britain.
Michelle O’Neill, Sinn Fein’s new leader in Northern Ireland, called the outcome “a great day for equality” and said she wanted negotiations to begin “as soon as possible.”
In addition to concerns over Britain’s decision to leave the European Union, known as Brexit — which a majority of voters in Northern Ireland did not support — many residents were angry about a botched incentive plan for green energy that was put in place by the unionists.
So far that program is 490 million pounds, or nearly $600 million, over budget, and the shortfall will have to be paid out of the block grant allocated to Northern Ireland each year from Britain.
The controversy led in January to the 
The Democratic Unionist Party is allied with Britain’s Conservative Party, which is pursuing Brexit, while Sinn Fein wants Northern Ireland to stay in the European Union and eventually merge with Ireland.
There is also growing indignation about a perceived lack of concern from London about Northern Ireland.
“The United Kingdom has been so preoccupied with matters elsewhere, even at this point of crisis,” said Mick Fealty, the founding editor of Slugger O’Toole, an influential political discussion forum. “It’s been reflected in the British media’s coverage of both Brexit in Northern Ireland, and the election. There just hasn’t been any.”
The Democratic Unionist Party leader, Arlene Foster, is now under pressure to step down, but a statement from the party on Saturday said that “she will be remaining as the leader.”
If the two leading parties do not reach agreement within the three-week time frame imposed by the British-appointed secretary of state for Northern Ireland, James Brokenshire, the government must either call another election or reimpose direct rule.