
LONDON — Jeremy Corbyn, the leftist leader of Britain’s languishing Labour Party, went on a news media onslaught on Tuesday aimed at re-energizing his image and rebranding himself as more of a populist to try to allay fears among even his allies that the party is headed for a disastrous defeat in the next election.
In a set of television and radio interviews and a speech on Tuesday, Mr. Corbyn shifted his position on immigration to Britain from the European Union, saying he was not wedded to freedom of movement for European Union citizens.
Instead, he said, he wants to end the exploitation of low-skilled foreign workers from the bloc and to promote local hiring, which would “probably” reduce the number of immigrants.
Mr. Corbyn, who always seemed a reluctant supporter of the official Labour policy to remain in the European Union, declared that “Britain can be better off after Brexit.”
And in a reach toward a leftist populism, he said Tuesday morning that he would like to see a cap on how much people can earn.
Inequality in income is getting worse in Britain, he said, something that cannot continue “if we want to live in a more egalitarian society.” He added, “I would like there to be some kind of high earnings cap, quite honestly.”
He was “not wedded to a figure,” he told the BBC, but he said, “Let’s look at it.”
He said he feared that, otherwise, Britain after a departure from the European Union might become a “grossly unequal, bargain-basement economy on the shores of Europe.”
Mr. Corbyn, who earns about 138,000 pounds, or about $168,000, a year, later told Sky News that he expected any maximum wage to be “somewhat higher than that.”
Later in the day, Mr. Corbyn backtracked, suggesting instead that inequality could be reduced by increasing income tax for the highly paid and by giving companies that reduce pay differentials lower corporate tax.
With Labour trailing the governing Conservatives in opinion polls, and the Liberal Democrats coming out strongly against leaving the bloc, Mr. Corbyn is trying to reach out to traditional Labour voters who are angry about job losses and low wages and who voted for a British exit from the bloc and for the U.K. Independence Party, which favors strict limits on immigration.
This month, one of Mr. Corbyn’s supporters, Len McCluskey, the general secretary of Britain’s largest trade union, Unite, suggested in an 
“Let’s suppose we are not having a snap election,” Mr. McCluskey said. “It buys into this question of what happens if we get to 2019 and opinion polls are still awful. The truth is, everybody would examine that situation, including Jeremy Corbyn and John McDonnell. These two are not egomaniacs; they are not desperate to cling on to power for power’s sake.”
Mr. McCluskey later said Mr. Corbyn had his “full support,” but the damage was done.
Mr. Corbyn has been a divisive leader, and he faced down a 
Superficially, Mr. Corbyn’s position has stabilized since last year, when an open feud with more centrist lawmakers culminated in the unsuccessful challenge to his leadership.
Since that debacle, from which Mr. Corbyn emerged with an increased mandate from party members and supporters, his many Labour Party critics in Parliament have pulled back from outright confrontation, aware that they risked being blamed for causing poor poll ratings by provoking internal divisions.
But the crisis within the party has not gone away, especially given fears that many Labour legislators could lose their seats in the next election. Internal critics are biding their time, with many devoting their political energies to working on important parliamentary committees.
They hope that, with Labour’s poll ratings poor, the tide will eventually turn against their leader, and that Mr. McCluskey might lose his re-election bid to lead Unite.
There is little sign of a revival of Labour support among voters, however, despite Mr. Corbyn’s success in attracting a cohort of enthusiastic, often younger, party members. There has been no apparent recovery in Scotland, once a Labour Party heartland, where the party slipped into third place in last year’s elections to the Scottish Parliament.
Also, UKIP is targeting the sort of working-class voters in the north of England who traditionally voted Labour. That threat was made explicit with the recent election of the new leader of UKIP, 
Despite the effort for a “Corbyn 2.0,” and widespread concern among British civil servants and business leaders that 
While trying to react to concerns in the party that Labour needs to respond to voter anxiety about immigration, Mr. Corbyn still wants Britain to remain in the European single market.
Mr. Corbyn, backing “fair rules and reasonably managed migration,” also suggested that the only limit on immigration controls was the need to balance them against trading with the single market.
But membership in the single market usually means accepting freedom of movement of labor and capital, and the rulings of the European Court of Justice, as European leaders constantly emphasize. That is widely assumed to make limits on immigration and access to the single market incompatible.
Mr. Nuttall told the BBC on Tuesday that Mr. Corbyn “seems all over the place” and was “saying that Labour isn’t wedded to free movement — but then says we will bargain that to have access to the single market.”
Mr. Corbyn’s speech was intended to emphasize his shift on migration, but his comments on a wage cap dominated coverage on Tuesday.
“Given that Mr. Corbyn could not put a rough number on where the cap should be — other than confirming it would not affect his own salary — suggests he has not properly thought this proposal through,” Mark Littlewood, director general of the Institute of Economic Affairs, a London-based free-market research institute, said in a statement.