
The clout of the “Davos Man” may be in question with the victories of Donald J. Trump and the Brexit campaign, but the world’s leaders and thinkers are rolling into the snowy resort of Davos, Switzerland, all the same.
And the World Economic Forum is trying to acknowledge what may have been a failing on the part of attendees at its annual meeting to articulate the benefits of open trade.
So the event’s organizers have put together an index of what they call inclusive growth and development, measuring countries according to their progress on economic growth and reducing income inequality.
“It’s our response to how capitalism has failed us — and how we need to fix it,” said Adrian Monck, a member of the forum’s executive committee.
The question is whether discussions this year can go beyond the theoretical for a group that many middle-class voters view as out of touch with real economic challenges, 
“I have no dealings with Russia,” Mr. Trump said at his news conference last week.
Well, it wasn’t for lack of trying.
In spite of Mr. Trump’s insistence that he has “stayed away” from Russia in his corporate dealings, he has repeatedly sought business in Russia, from as far back as 1987.
Mr. Trump applied for his trademark in the country as early as 1996 and his children and associates have visited Moscow in search of joint ventures.
In 2013, the president-elect sold Russian real estate developers the right to host his Miss Universe pageant and used the visit as a chance to discuss development deals. “TRUMP TOWER-MOSCOW is next,” he wrote on Twitter at the time.
Mr. Trump and his partners pursued Russians newly flush with cash as the country’s market opened up in the post-Soviet era. And 
In the long run, however, it proved more challenging in Russia than it did in places like India and the Philippines.
Corporate governance is rare in the finance world. Could that be because it’s an area 
They hold the top positions in corporate governance at many of the biggest mutual funds and pension funds, deciding which way to vote on the directors of a company board, making decisions for teachers, government employees, doctors and most people with a 401(k).
Women are the heads of corporate governance at seven of the 10 largest institutional investors in stocks. These investors oversee $14 trillion in assets.
Corporate governance is playing a growing role in corporate America, but the power wielded by these institutions is rarely used to confront companies.
Still, the heads of corporate governance at institutional giants say they are working quietly behind the scenes to press for greater shareholder rights.
• President 
• Theresa May, Britain’s prime minister, is set to make a long-awaited speech on her plans for leaving the European Union. She is likely to opt for a so-called 
• Morgan Stanley, which has gravitated toward more stable businesses like wealth management in recent years, reports its quarterly earnings. Investors will be looking to see whether it has benefited from this strategy.