
Young people in the United States and Britain have something in common. They’re both living with a political reality that they don’t like.
In the United States, voters under 30 
But now it looks like young Brits, at least, may be starting to take their revenge. In a shocking result, Britain’s Conservative Party, led by Theresa May, 
Can Democrats also translate anger among younger Americans (over Trump, rather than Brexit) into higher turnout? It would be a big deal if so, because turnout among millenials was 
Perhaps the most obvious question is whether the Democrats should adopt the same unabashed populism — the real kind, not the Trump kind — that Corbyn did. For a taste of it, you can watch this 
It’s important not to exaggerate the British result. The Conservatives still won more seats than Labour. Corbyn is a 
I hope you’ll pardon a longer newsletter than usual today, given the torrent of news. I want to turn to James Comey’s testimony now:
Much of the reaction to it has focused on the question of whether President Trump committed obstruction of justice. That’s a mistake.
President Trump doesn’t need to have committed obstruction to have done something very wrong. And if you believe Comey’s testimony, Trump did indeed do something very wrong. On multiple occasions, he tried to influence an investigation into his campaign, and he demanded “loyalty” from Comey, rather than truth and justice.
I understand why people are focusing on the technical legal issues. They’re ultimately important as well. But the primary ways that a president is held accountable for his behavior are political, not legal.
His poll ratings can fall, which leads his own allies to abandon him. His party can lose seats, which leaves the party with less power. Ultimately, the president himself can lose re-election if he is in his first term. Even impeachment is more of a political process than a legal one, constitutional scholars say.
“There’s no *substantive* reason to argue about things like the legal standards of obstruction of justice or similar minutiae,” the political scientist 
Unless Comey is shown to be unreliable — and there is every reason to trust him over Trump — the answer is yes. The Comey hearing damaged Trump’s already troubled political standing.
Here are a few pieces on Comey that I found illuminating:
— “I know Trump defenders will continue trying to wave it all away — it’s already becoming clear how they want to do so — but Comey keeps making it harder for them,” 
— “Overall, one gets the impression that the president views himself less as the president of a constitutional republic and more as the dictatorial CEO of a private company,” 
— Glassman also argued that many observers are missing the importance of Republicans’ tepid support for Trump. “It’s true his party hasn’t thrown him overboard. But that’s cold comfort in a job that needs *positive* help, not just minimal tolerance,” 
— Nate Silver has noted that Trump’s approval ratings have 
— Dan Epps, a law professor at Washington University, 
— FiveThirtyEight 
The full Opinion report from The Times follows, including 