
“It’s time to go,” one of the men in uniform said after asking whom we worked for. “You’ve got what you need.”
He was right. After nearly a week in Manus investigating the standoff involving hundreds of asylum seekers who had refused to leave the detention camp that Australia tried to shut down on Oct. 31, I had three notebooks full of interviews with detainees, local leaders and outside experts.
Adam and I had also found a way into the camp: We accompanied a few of the asylum seekers as they traveled by boat in the middle of the night to carry in food and medicine.
We knew the visit was a risk. A boat captain had been arrested a few nights earlier, and the guards outside the camp were armed.
We went anyway because we felt there was no other way to fully show the world what was happening without going inside. (We also believed the worst-case scenarios were unlikely, based on previous trips we’d been told about by men in the camp.)
The result was an 
But with a project like this, there are always things that drop out, that diverge from the main point of the piece, or that would simply make it too long.
For example, there were men like Imran Mohammed, a Rohingya refugee from Myanmar, who I wished I could have introduced in the article — to tell readers about the 1,200-page autobiography he has written, by hand, in English, which he learned while detained.
There were locals helping the asylum seekers as well, whom I could not identify for fear they would be targeted by Papua New Guinea or Australian authorities.
And there were moments of tension, too.
One sweltering afternoon, while I was waiting for an interview, I saw a Pakistani asylum seeker stumbling, drunk and swearing, toward one of the guards at a detention facility closer to Lorengau. I did what I could to de-escalate the situation, but I left wondering when that might happen again — and when the tension settling all over the island as a result of Australia’s extended detention might erupt into violence.
Some of these experiences and characters may find their way into future articles. Reporting, and over-reporting, is always valuable in one way or another — and just this morning, some of the asylum seekers inside were 
While we look into that, here are a few visual outtakes from Adam, powerful photos that also did not make it into the original piece.
Tell us what you think by email at 
And I have one thing to add. It’s Thanksgiving today for Americans like me and since most of this newsletter’s readers (and our staff) are Australian, I feel compelled to explain our simple tradition: We all share at least one thing we’re thankful for.
So this year, I’m thankful for ...
• The smell of the ocean, which seems to rise up all over Sydney whenever a touch of calm is needed.
• Sausage sizzles, avo toast and Four Pillars gin. Not necessarily all together.
• Our Australia team: Smart, curious and collegial, they’ve embraced this experiment with gusto.
• My wife and kids, adventurers all.
• And finally, our readers and guides.
There are so many Australians who have generously shared their experiences and insight about this country, from novelists to Uber drivers to the sources who will not be named — to the readers of this newsletter, who overwhelm me every week with thoughtful responses.
Seriously, Australia, thanks for having us and supporting what we do.
Now, here’s my roundup of all our Australia stories this week, some other work we love, and a recommendation.
______
It’s been a busy week. Australia lost two important cultural figures, memorialized in New York Times obituaries: AC/DC’s 
We also wrote about:
A book criticizing China’s influence in Australia that was 
A study showing that temporary foreign workers in Australia 
A Turkish-Mexican restaurant in Sydney called 
______
Our continuing coverage of Brexit includes a 
You may also check out previous stories in the series, including 
______
______
It’s 
Dig in. Spend wisely. Let the holiday craziness begin.