
Losing one referendum crucial to the future of Europe may be regarded as misfortune, but, as Oscar Wilde might say, losing two looks like carelessness. Europe’s leaders are looking careless after forcing votes in Britain and Italy that went the wrong way, from their perspective, within less than six months.
But you would barely realize that any of that happened, judging by the performance of European markets.
Stocks plunged after 
Popular exchange-traded funds, like Vanguard FTSE Europe and iShares Europe, lost 3.9 percent and 3.2 percent on the year, although dividend payments meant that shareholders just about broke even.
European government bond yields have soared since the so-called Brexit vote, but they were still down for all of 2016, which means that bond prices, which move in the opposite direction, rose.
The markets are taking political developments in stride, but that may not last. For while the people have spoken, they are not about to pipe down soon; national elections are scheduled this year in the two most important European Union states: Germany and France.
There are populist parties on the ballot in each that could achieve enough support to ruffle the markets. Many Europeans are frustrated with decades of economic stagnation exacerbated by a failure by leaders to confront barriers to prosperity like high taxes and rigid labor markets. With so much at stake, investment advisers warn, it would be foolish to downplay the dangers.
Europe is suffering from “the rise of populist backlash against the establishment,” said Paul O’Connor, head of multiasset for Henderson Global Investors, a British company that manages $12.5 billion in assets in American mutual funds. “It feels as if it’s in its infancy, and it’s going to overshadow the next few years quite significantly.”
Populist governments often spend lots of money on infrastructure projects and other programs intended to curry favor with the public, market strategists say. That enhances growth in the short run, and it may provide a notable boost for Europe by accelerating a nascent trend away from the austerity that many governments imposed during the debt crisis a few years ago.
But the spending programs are often financed with borrowed money, something that Europe owes plenty of already, and the damage from the added debt usually outweighs and outlasts the benefits from the growth. Stock buyers lately seem to be focusing on the positive growth factors, while bond sellers are looking further ahead.
“Typically, when a populist government gets elected, one of the first things it does is fiscal expansion” to promote job growth and voter confidence, said Markus Stadlmann, chief investment officer of Lloyds Private Bank. “What happens in the next phase of fiscal expansion is that it’s financed by government borrowing.” President-elect Donald J. Trump and Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain have proposed programs of one sort or another that would serve this purpose, Mr. Stadlmann said.
When the bill comes due, it is often in the form of higher interest rates or higher inflation. At that stage, he warned, “government is less in control, the deficit deteriorates, government spending is unsustainable, wages fall in real terms and there are capital outflows. That’s one of the reasons the bond rout has been really intense.”
Another populist impulse that should worry investors is protectionism through tariffs or other curbs on foreign goods. The aim is to protect jobs, but most economists say that constraining trade limits competition and leads to higher consumer prices.
One concern about Brexit is that Britain will lose access to the free-trade zone within Europe. Not only might British merchandise be hit with tariffs, but British companies might also have to pay more for European goods used in manufacturing.
Mr. Stadlmann called the potential for trade disruptions “a big risk.”
A potentially (if, at the moment, unlikely) catastrophic economic event that investment advisers say is not accounted for in asset prices is the departure from the European Union, or at least the euro, of the one indispensable member: Germany.
If Germans wanted to leave the union — say, because of disenchantment with the influx of migrants or the assistance provided to weaker member states — it could do so. Germany has a more robust economy than its neighbors, and it runs a large current-account surplus with the world outside Europe (more money comes in than goes out), so it could replace the euro with a stronger currency, reducing the country’s debt burden, whereas a weaker country that left the eurozone might risk default.
If Germany left, “the E.U. would be severely wounded, at best,” said William Porter, global credit strategist for Credit Suisse, adding, “Politics in the periphery is not what’s going to drive” developments in Europe. “It’s the core.”
Mr. Stadlmann expressed similar thoughts, saying, “It’s not Spain and Italy that are different in the E.U., it’s Germany.” He added that he is “not very negative on the E.U. holding together at the moment.”
What investment advisers are very negative on when they consider the impact of rising populism is European bonds.
“The re-pricing in government bonds is incomplete,” said Mr. O’Connor at Henderson, adding, “It’s plausible the bull market in fixed-income has come to an end.”
Mr. Stadlmann likewise noted that the reversal of bond yields is “continuing and gaining speed.” As for other assets, he encourages being “very, very selective.” In particular, he favors stocks of German retailers and real estate companies.
John Maxwell, manager of the Ivy International Core Equity Fund, is more optimistic on European stocks, especially on multinational companies that are cheaper than rivals based elsewhere and that are comparatively immune to politics.
“If something goes wrong, it doesn’t mean Procter & Gamble is going to do better than Unilever selling detergent in Italy,” he said.
Unilever is one portfolio holding that illustrates his point. Others are the energy company Total, British American Tobacco, the health care concern Smith & Nephew and Reckitt Benckiser, which makes household goods.
Mr. O’Connor of Henderson prefers market segments that do well when inflation rises, including financial services and economically cyclical sectors like natural resources and consumer discretionary. Among the 10 largest holdings in the Henderson International Opportunities fund on Nov. 30, the last date for which holdings had been disclosed, were the French carmaker Renault, the British insurance company Standard Life and the German tire manufacturer Continental.
But Mr. O’Connor’s support for European stocks in general is lukewarm, and with the penchant that European voters have shown for making surprising decisions with ramifications that will remain hard to gauge, taking big investment risks may start to look like carelessness.
“Equities are the place to be, but I think it’s going to be a bumpy ride,” he said. While he finds that “momentum is gradually improving,” the inability to find lasting solutions to what does not work in Europe ensures that there will be “no very powerful bull script.”
“There is a more plausible path to growth” in Europe, Mr. O’Connor said, “but it’s not enough to dispel some of the political things that are flaring up.”