
Some American conservatives, including President Trump, warn that secular elites, pursuing an agenda of political correctness, have played down religion as part of a so-called 
In Britain, some are now warning of a war on Easter.
The “
The event, which has been around for a decade and has been known as the Easter Egg Trail, is co-sponsored with the National Trust, a conservation charity. It sends hundreds of thousands of children hunting for Easter eggs on historic properties across the country on Easter weekend.
The decision was considered such an affront to traditionalists that none less than the archbishop of York and Prime Minister Theresa May intervened to express dismay.
The archbishop, 
“If people visited Birmingham today in the Cadbury World they will discover how Cadbury’s Christian faith influenced his industrial output,” 
Mrs. May was sufficiently irritated by the decision to omit the word “Easter” that she interrupted a trip in the Middle East to weigh in on the debate.
“I’m not just a vicar’s daughter — I’m a member of the National Trust as well,” she 
The protests recalled in some ways statements by Mr. Trump, who two years ago suggested 
“If I become president, we’re all going to be saying ‘Merry Christmas’ again, that I can tell you,” Mr. Trump 
Fanning a similar theme, in 2013 the Fox News host Bill O’Reilly bemoaned a “
Cadbury said in a statement that it was “simply not true to claim that we have removed the word ‘Easter’ from our marketing and communication materials.” Preaching a message of inclusiveness, it added, “We invite people from all faiths and none to enjoy our seasonal treats.”
The National Trust said any suggestion it was playing down the significance of Easter was “nonsense.” “A casual glance at 
The culture war over Easter comes after Britain triggered the start of its negotiations to leave the European Union and as it has become consumed by a debate over national identity while it struggles to find a place in a globalized world.
The Church of England — with its titular head, the monarch — has been at the core of national identity dating to the 16th century. But immigration, multiculturalism and intensifying secularism have helped to diminish its sway.
He emphasized, however, that, in his view, the desire to play down the religious aspect of the holiday was invariably motivated by one factor above all: Cadbury’s desire to sell more candy. Noting that Cadbury, a storied British company, was bought in 2010 for nearly $20 billion by Kraft Foods, now called Mondelez International, he added: “I blame the Americans for this, and some creepy globalist neoliberal, private-equity-driven motive aimed at not offending anyone who has a tuppence in their purse. I do rather wish Easter could still be called Easter.”
Others said the debate was misplaced, among them Esther McConnell, who said she was a descendant of Cadbury. “I’m sure John Cadbury (my g. g. g. g. grandfather) is not spinning in his grave,” she wrote on 