
at 30 minutes 38 seconds
I’m going to cheat and choose a video from Facebook. The countertenor Anthony Roth Costanzo joined us at National Sawdust for a live interview and performance, including a song from Philip Glass’s 1986 album “Songs From Liquid Days” — a miracle of collaborations (with a portrait by Robert Mapplethorpe for the cover art) featuring David Byrne, Laurie Anderson and other luminaries. Mr. Costanzo sang “Liquid Days,” which he said he would record for his first album with Decca Gold, scheduled for release next summer. The accompaniment, by the composer-pianist Timo Andres, deserved as much attention as Mr. Costanzo’s masterly singing. Mr. Andres delivered Mr. Glass’s rapid arpeggios (reminiscent of the opera “Satyagraha,” which had its premiere a few years before “Songs From Liquid Days”) with baffling ease and gripping momentum. 
AT 1 MINUTE 33 SECONDS 
London’s 
AT 21 SECONDS AND 13 MINUTES 5 SECONDS
AT 3 MINUTES 29 SECONDS
I don't think nearly enough about Annelies Kupper, the German soprano of the 1940s and ’50s who originated the title role in the public premiere of Strauss's “Die Liebe der Danae.” The website Parterre Box did me a favor by reminding me, including her on Friday on a birthday list (she was born on July 21, 1906, and died in 1987) with this spacious performance of Ariadne's great aria from another Strauss work, “Ariadne auf Naxos.” It's rich, warm, yet beautifully pointed singing, with a shiver of vulnerability; I love the tiny rainbow of majestic colors she brings to “neuen” in the line “Folget ihrem neuen Herrn” (“Follow their new lord”). 
AT 4 MINUTES 51 SECONDS
Part two of the Proms protests against Brexit was not so subtle. Daniel Barenboim came armed with the Staatskapelle Berlin and a pair of Elgar symphonies, music widely considered surpassingly British but more rightly thought of as innately European — “the best case against Brexit,” the conductor told the BBC. He came, too, with a 
AT 12 MINUTES 23 SECONDS
It caught my attention at the Boston Early Music Festival in June that the 500th anniversary of the Reformation is being celebrated this year, commemorating Martin Luther’s promulgation of his 95 Theses. Knowing that Luther had strong connections to music but never having known precisely what they were, I determined to learn more. Among the first things I turned up is a series of homely video enactments of Luther and his wife, Katharina von Bora, making music. In this compilation, the lutenist Hans Meijer portrays Luther, himself a lutenist, and the soprano Paula Bär-Giese plays his wife. Almost inevitably it concludes with a version of Luther’s own hymn, “Ein Feste Burg Ist Unser Gott” (“A Mighty Fortress Is Our God”) in an early version, with Hein Hof playing virginal
AT 3 MINUTES 45 SECONDS
Now more than ever I realize how privileged I was during my early adolescent years of opera-going to have heard the legendary soprano Renata Tebaldi perform several times at the Metropolitan Opera, including as Mimi in “La Bohème” and Desdemona in “Otello” (twice!). I can still remember the enveloping, creamy richness her sound and the arching beauty of her phrasing. Here she is in a deeply emotional yet regal performance of “Un bel dì” from Puccini’s “Madama Butterfly” in a 1959 television appearance. In her day Tebaldi was faulted by some for lacking dramatic intensity, certainly in comparison with her contemporary Callas. Oh yeah? Listen to the chilling fervor of her final phrase, ending with a powerful high B-flat. 
AT 1 MINUTE 6 SECONDS
In my Luther travels on YouTube, I happened on part of a 2016 memorial service at St. Thomas Church in Leipzig for Kurt Masur, a former music director of the New York Philharmonic after many years at the Leipzig Gewandhaus Orchestra, who died in 2015. It starts with “Ein Feste Burg” as a chorale prelude played by the organist Ullrich Böhme, but really comes to life when the boys of the Thomanerchor, once Bach’s choir and here led by Gotthold Schwarz, sing it in another early version. Other New Yorkers with fond memories of the maestro will readily forgive the loving congregation, which sings alternate verses, for failing to match the boys’ musical standard. 