
THURSDAY PUZZLE — We have another debut today, and I’m just letting you know up front that its clever theme calls for a specific sort of knowledge.
Not to worry: It deals with some basic differences between British and American English, which is the sort of knowledge most of you already possess. Also, as someone who recently spent approximately one week in London for the first time, I consider myself an expert. So really, ask me anything.
The first thing you might note after you solve is that the placement of the theme entries is geographically incorrect. Or maybe it didn’t bother you, but as the person who is responsible for pointing out things like this, I asked the constructor Ross Trudeau in the gentlest way possible — because this is his first published puzzle and I didn’t want to upset him — why the Britishisms were on the “west” side of the ATLANTIC OCEAN and the American English was on the “east” side. Here, verbatim, is his response:
The truth is that I just couldn’t get the fill to work with the Britishisms in the east where they belong. But here is my in-progress list of alternative excuses:
1. My roommate, the inspiration for the puzzle, now speaks his British English here on the left of the Atlantic.
2. The U.S. is on the ‘left’ of the Atlantic, only because world maps arbitrarily represent north as up, which is a shameful vestige of Eurocentric cartography that thought it only proper to place Europe ‘on top.’ #staywoke
So, at least now we know what we’re dealing with. Feel free to turn the puzzle upside down if it makes you feel better.
I have gone on record as someone who is not fond of puzzles where the theme relies on cross-referencing (“X-Down, across the Y-Down”) because it requires too much bopping around the grid, and so I was somewhat disheartened when I scanned the clue list. As I got into the puzzle and it started to flow, however, I became a fan. Mr. Trudeau’s theme hides itself for a long time, and that’s always a delicious treat on a Thursday.
We have the ATLANTIC OCEAN running down the center of our grid today and, on either side of the “Pond,” Mr. Trudeau has managed to symmetrically place the British and American English equivalents for four words. 
Now you all get back to work and, Bob’s your uncle, you’ll be done in no time.
■ 1A: Wordplay alert! “Bit of resistance” can have different meanings, but today it refers to the OHM, the measure of resistance.
■ 7A: I was doomed on this one from the start, but apparently the New England Patriots, who won the Super Bowl on Sunday, were AFLERS (members of the American Football League) before 1970. Thank you, crossings. #NowIKnow
■ 16A: BREXIT debut! Yes, it’s on the “American” side. Make of that what you will.
■ 22A: This was a new word for me, and it means one who is able to read, but refuses to do so. 
■ 62A: I grew up in New York City, and even I needed to look this one up. If you miss the E TRAIN, you’ll find you missed the quickest way to the World Trade Center.
■ 6D: The comedian Aziz ANSARI has been in The New York Times crossword before, because who could resist those Zs? Today, however, he makes his surname debut.
■ 33D: Hands up if you reflexively wrote in BOZO. Yes, we’re old. I haven’t met too many clowns named BOBO.
This puzzle owes its existence to my best mate, an Englishman from Nottingham. I get a really big kick out of unnecessarily translating/annotating what he says in front of other people. (“Oh, guys, ‘knackered’ means ‘super tired.’ Isn’t that weird? He’s from 
I wrote this puzzle, along with the first 20 or so that I sent out for consideration to puzzle editors, by hand. It was during the editorial process that I learned that constructors tend to use software to help with fill. The exchange went something like:
After a semi-concussive face-palm, I chose to look back on my countless pencil-and-paper hours as a rite of passage. And I especially dig that BREXIT found a home in the fill. It is my great privilege to be able to honor my best mate — an immigrant and a good man — in these fraught days.
And we welcome you, Mr. Trudeau.
Your thoughts?