
LONDON — State visits to Britain are supposed to be about ceremony — banquets at Buckingham Palace, rides in horse-drawn coaches and small talk with Queen Elizabeth II — rather than politics.
But even before a date has been set, President Trump’s trip to London has provoked a fierce political dispute, with an 
The argument came in reaction to 
Some Conservative Party lawmakers have accused Mr. Bercow of hypocrisy because he has welcomed controversial leaders like the Chinese president, Xi Jinping, who addressed Parliament in 2015. Others have suggested that Mr. Bercow’s outspoken intervention overstepped the tradition of political neutrality associated with the role of the speaker.
Mr. Bercow has long been a 
But the dispute underscores the divisions in Britain over the decision to invite Mr. Trump, which has prompted more than 1.8 million Britons to sign a petition calling on the government to cancel the state visit.
On Tuesday, the backlash against Mr. Bercow was led by Sajid Javid, the communities secretary, who, while avoiding direct criticism of Mr. Bercow, told the BBC that ministers did not agree with the speaker’s view.
“The government is very clear: President Trump is the leader of our most important ally, he’s elected fairly and squarely, and it’s manifestly in our national interests that we reach out to him,” Mr. Javid said.
John Whittingdale, a former culture secretary, told Sky News that Mr. Bercow’s intervention was “a performance — it was John Bercow playing to the gallery, and I think it was damaging to the national interest.” He added, “I think it is regrettable that he did it.”
Yet Mr. Bercow is far from isolated, and his intervention on Monday was greeted with cheers and applause from some lawmakers. One veteran left-wing lawmaker from the opposition Labour Party, Dennis Skinner, rose from his seat and said to Mr. Bercow: “Two words: Well done!”
Some female Labour deputies called for a boycott of any Trump speech. And so far there has been no attempt in Parliament to bring up for discussion a no-confidence motion in Mr. Bercow. That suggests that lawmakers may be reluctant to upset the speaker, who controls debates, or have calculated that he would survive any vote to unseat him.
In fact, Mr. Bercow’s intervention is not conclusive, as the lord speaker, the speaker of the House of Lords and the lord great chamberlain, who represents Queen Elizabeth, would also have to agree to any government request to invite a head of state to speak in Parliament. On Tuesday, the lord speaker, Norman Fowler, said that he would keep an “open mind” on whether to invite Mr. Trump and that Mr. Bercow had apologized for a lack of consultation before his statement on Monday.
Nevertheless, Mr. Bercow’s comments made it unlikely that such an invitation would be made, and they provoked the wrath of Conservative-leaning newspapers. The Daily Telegraph, a conservative broadsheet, argued that “the contents of Mr. Bercow’s near-hysterical rant about President Donald Trump’s planned state visit to Britain are unacceptable,” while The Sun, a right-wing tabloid, described the speaker as an “egomaniac” in an editorial titled “Berk Bercow.”
Nevertheless, it is not clear that Mr. Trump has any desire to address Parliament, particularly given that some deputies have threatened to boycott any address. (In contrast, he has said that he is a fan of the queen and eager to meet her.)
In Britain, there has been fierce criticism of some of Mr. Trump’s policies, particularly his ban on visits to the United States from seven majority-Muslim countries. Last year, British lawmakers 
But the unease has been compounded by the uncustomary speed of the invitation to Mr. Trump, so soon after he was inaugurated. Mrs. May’s critics say she rushed into the move to ingratiate herself with Mr. Trump because she is desperate to conclude a quick trade deal with the United States to help compensate for Britain’s looming departure from the European Union.
“At the very least, it would have been prudent to wait before rolling the royal red carpet,” wrote Andrew Rawnsley of The Observer, the Sunday sister newspaper of The Guardian, adding: “Pimping out the Queen for Donald Trump. This, apparently, is what they meant by getting our sovereignty back.”
On Tuesday, there was another reminder of the lingering divisions over withdrawal from the European Union, this one from Scotland, where a majority in last year’s referendum voted to remain in the bloc.
The Scottish Parliament voted Tuesday to oppose Mrs. May’s plans to begin negotiations on withdrawal by the end of March.