
LONDON — It is a British campaign ritual that every party issues its political platform, or manifesto, telling voters what policies it intends to enact if elected. This time, however, with the Conservatives expected to have an easy victory, their manifesto matters more than most.
Prime Minister Theresa May introduced 
With even one of Labour’s prime supporters, Len McCluskey of the powerful Unite union, 
A month after Mrs. May shocked the country by 
While continually uttering the mantra of a “strong and stable government,” she has been contrasting that with the prospect of “a coalition of chaos” should Mr. Corbyn form a minority government with the Scottish National Party and the Liberal Democrats.
She hailed “a manifesto to see us through Brexit and beyond” and a “plan for a stronger, fairer and more prosperous Britain,” one “rooted in the hopes and aspirations of working people.” Her speech essentially tried to justify her decision to call a new election three years early to get her own mandate and ensure a larger majority in Parliament through March 2019, when two years of negotiations with the European Union are supposed to end.
But as she made clear on Thursday, some of her policies draw a clear contrast to her predecessor, David Cameron, who quit when he lost the 
And while Mrs. May was a quiet supporter of the “Remain” campaign to stay in the European Union, she has worked to convince voters that she will keep the promises she has made since becoming prime minister and negotiate a British exit from the European Union that will reduce immigration and mitigate the economic costs of leaving.
Against the quiet advice of many senior Conservatives, Mrs. May has recommitted to a target of keeping net immigration below 100,000 a year, which is considered unrealistic, especially if foreign students coming to Britain for their education are included.
On Thursday, the health secretary, Jeremy Hunt, said the cabinet was “completely united” behind the target. But the Cameron-era chancellor of the Exchequer, George Osborne, authorized 
The last year that net immigration was below 100,000 was 1997; in 2016, the figure was 273,000.
Still, if anger over uncontrolled immigration from the European Union was the main driver of the exit vote, as social scientists believe, Mrs. May’s pledge, even if never achieved, will reinforce her attraction to Labour and U.K. Independence Party supporters who voted to leave.
One of the reasons for the Conservatives’ large lead in the opinion polls is that UKIP is falling apart and moving toward the Conservatives. It is being joined by working-class Labour voters, especially in the north of Britain, who favored a British exit and do not consider Mr. Corbyn a plausible prime minister, even if they like some of his traditional left-wing redistributive policies.
The small centrist Liberal Democrats have called for a second referendum on Britain’s exit after the government negotiates a deal with the European Union. But opinion polls indicate that the party is not gaining much traction with a voting public that has come to accept leaving the bloc as inevitable and seems to feel that Mrs. May will negotiate a better deal than Mr. Corbyn would.
To pay for new funding for social benefits and the huge National Health Service, Mrs. May has abandoned two important Cameron pledges intended to appeal to older people. There is no longer a promise that a new Conservative government will not raise income tax or national insurance contributions (though value-added tax will not go up). And there is no longer a promise of a “triple lock” on pensions that increased payments by at least 2.5 percent a year, which in recent years was much higher than the inflation rate.
The Conservatives will also cut back on the promise of free school lunches for all children, regardless of family income, to provide another 1 billion pounds, about $1.3 billion, for school funding, and will only provide subsidies for heating during the winter to those who cannot afford it, rather than to everyone. But it also promises to cap energy bills for many.
While Mr. Cameron seemed to appeal to “the aspiring classes,” Mrs. May has pitched her appeal to citizens who are worried about an uncertain future, who are 
Under one such proposal, the state would shoulder the cost of long-term care when the family’s assets were reduced to £100,000 rather than nothing, as it is now — assuring elderly relatives could stay in their homes and the next generation would receive some inheritance.
But the proposal would also mean that those who can afford it will pay a larger share of the cost of their care, rather than the state, and some homes might be sold after death, rather than being passed on.
The Tories also promised to increase spending on the National Health Service by at least £8 billion in real terms over the next five years and to reinstitute controversial grammar schools, which select students by exams but which many think are damaging the quality of ordinary public schools. They also promised to increase the national minimum wage to 60 percent of median earnings by 2020 and to lower corporate taxes to 17 percent from 19 percent by 2020, a sharp contrast to 
Previous Conservative governments have promised various deadlines, none of them met, for a balanced budget; this manifesto promises one only by 2025, even as Britain’s cumulative national debt continues to rise.
The Conservatives also pledged to increase defense spending, and keep it above the NATO target of 2 percent of gross domestic product, and to keep foreign aid spending at 0.7 percent of G.D.P. Not surprisingly, they also reject the idea of a new referendum on Scottish independence until Britain’s exit “has played out” and “there is public consent for it to happen.”
Even before the Conservative manifesto was announced, the Labour Party 
On Thursday, Mr. Gwynne said that Mrs. May “offers the majority of working people and pensioners insecurity with a huge question mark over their living standards.” The Conservatives, he said, “stand up only for the few.”
“For the many,” he added, “they offer the prospect of five years of insecurity.”
Even if Mrs. May achieves the significantly larger majority she seeks, her problems will not be over, warned Tony Travers, a professor of government at the London School of Economics. “If she wins a majority of over 100, it sounds like the empress of all you survey,” he said. “But her party has its own fractures, and the coalition she will create among them is inherently unstable.”