
Here’s a look at what’s coming up this week.
TECHNOLOGY
Strong sales of the iPhone 7 mean that Apple probably returned to growth in the quarter that ended in December 
ECONOMY
The Federal Reserve probably doesn’t mind that nobody has been paying much attention to monetary policy lately. The Fed’s chairwoman, Janet Yellen, 
This week, the private Institute for Supply Management will report the latest readings of its manufacturing index for January. On Wednesday at 10 a.m., the manufacturing index for January will be announced. Analysts expect a further increase to 55.0 percent from 
TECHNOLOGY
Facebook will report its fourth-quarter fiscal results on Wednesday. Analysts expect the company to deliver another blockbuster quarter of advertising revenue. Wall Street anticipates an earnings per share ratio of $1.31 on total revenue of $8.5 billion. As always, investors will pay close attention to Facebook’s mobile user numbers and the percentage of revenue derived from mobile devices. Also of note: the advertising performance of the photo-sharing network Instagram. 
ECONOMY
On Wednesday, the Indian government is scheduled to unveil Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s budget for the next fiscal year, which will start on April 1. Mr. Modi’s decision to 
The Bank of England on Thursday will release its latest monetary policy decision and unveil its updated forecast for inflation The announcement will be followed by a news conference by Mark Carney, the Bank of England governor. The Monetary Policy Committee is widely expected to keep interest rates steady, as the British economy has performed better than expected since Britain’s June vote to leave the European Union, known as “Brexit.”
The Office of National Statistics said last week that Britain’s economy had grown at an estimated 
BANKING INDUSTRY
Deutsche Bank will be the latest of Europe’s biggest lenders to report its annual results. The bank, Germany’s largest, will update investors on its performance in the fourth quarter on Thursday, followed by a news conference by John Cryan, its chief executive. Deutsche Bank said this month that it would 
ECONOMY
On Friday at 8:30 a.m., the Labor Department will report on job creation and the unemployment rate in January. The announcement is the first jobs report of the Trump presidency, and economists are eager to see if rising 
The median forecast calls for a gain of 170,000 jobs for the month, with the unemployment rate unchanged at 4.7 percent. In addition to looking at the overall numbers, experts will watch whether the trend of 