
Sherri Pomeroy, above center, the wife of the pastor at the First Baptist Church in Sutherland Springs, Tex., lost her 14-year-old daughter in the massacre there. But she will get up on Thanksgiving and cook for the shattered congregation.
“I just know that I’m not going to dishonor them by giving up,” she said. “Because then their lives would be in vain. Or their deaths would be in vain.”
And the Trump Organization announced that it would walk away 
The Justice Department suit to block AT&T’s proposed takeover of Time Warner was a brake on power. (Above, AT&T’s headquarters in Dallas.) But the F.C.C.’s plan to end net neutrality would empower, and enrich, internet providers. (Here’s 
According to Tim Wu, the Columbia professor who coined the term net neutrality, there is a common theme: Both moves are “
It was the fifth accident this year for the Seventh Fleet, the Navy’s largest overseas fleet. “This year needs to be over already,” one service member wrote on Facebook, adding, “7th fleet can’t handle any more curse.”
After a trial that lasted years, 
Our correspondent 
“Psychologically Brexit has had a huge impact,” said Cyril Noël, a French doctor, above. “You feel rejected as a group.”
It’s a surprise turn in a weekslong international mystery. On Nov. 4, while in Saudi Arabia, Mr. Hariri abruptly announced that he was stepping down. Speculation that the Saudis had forced his hand ran rife, especially when he dropped out of view.
He attended a military parade in Beirut for Lebanon’s Independence Day on Wednesday.
Our data analysis was one of the first to look at mothers and daughters in addition to fathers and sons. We found that working fathers and sons are 2.7 times as likely as the rest of the population to have the same job. The numbers are slightly lower for women.
Some of the jobs most likely to be passed down include steelworker, legislator, baker, lawyer and doctor. How dynastic is your field? Find out using the interactive feature in our article.
The 
“What is it with the robes?” he asked. “First Cosby, then Weinstein, now Charlie Rose. Who’s next, Yoda? ‘Hmm, tense you seem. Shoulders I will rub. Reported to H.R. I am.’”
But don’t laugh too hard: Our critic says 
The Evening Briefing will be off on Thursday.
Happy Thanksgiving!