
LONDON — I think David Cameron was the worst prime minister Britain has had in the 40 years I’ve been alive, but his replacement, Theresa May, is competing hard for the title. She has jettisoned the strategic sense that was Mr. Cameron’s only worthwhile talent, and has scrapped his best initiative: fighting international corruption and tax evasion with financial transparency.
This month, journalists in a dozen countries uncovered how 
The charge sheet against Mr. Cameron is common knowledge. It was he who gave us Brexit, by 
But as Britain finally starts considering the detailed legislation needed to remove us from the European Union, it is becoming clear that Mr. Cameron understood the reasons why so many voters across the West feel alienated from their governments, and he attempted to tackle the root causes, in a way that Ms. May does not.
In the decade since the financial crisis, public anger has simmered over the way rich individuals and corporations game the international financial system to avoid paying their fair share. In Britain, those ploys include the tax-minimization schemes of companies like 
Hundreds of billions of pounds of illicit money pass through British banks every year, and the National Crime Agency 
All this dirty money is indeed a threat, but its concentration in Britain is also an opportunity. If Britain cleaned itself up, it would deny tax cheats, criminals, kleptocrats and 
If democracies don’t rein in the world’s richest citizens and restrain the widening gap between the 0.1 percent and the rest, they will not stay democratic for long. And since today money flows seamlessly through the globalized financial system, stopping it requires international cooperation.
This is why the Cameron government put joint efforts against tax avoidance and corruption at the top of the agenda when it chaired 
The hope was that tackling the misuse of the financial system and corruption in developing nations would help solve many of the world’s most pressing problems: poverty, economic stagnation, illegal immigration, even terrorism. “Corruption adds 10 percent to business costs globally,” Mr. Cameron said in a speech in Singapore in July 2015, and “cutting corruption by just 10 percent could benefit the global economy by $380 billion every year.”
Even while the referendum loomed, and Britain’s fate teetered on the thin margins of opinion polls, Mr. Cameron maintained his focus on this global problem. In May last year, the month before the Brexit tsunami capsized his premiership, he hosted an 
But then the Brexit referendum happened, Britain turned inward and all that stopped. The Cameron government had promised to publish its 
Instead, we had the Conservative Party’s manifesto for the entirely unnecessary election that Ms. May fluffed earlier this year. It does not mention the word “corruption” once, and contains just a few bromides about tax avoidance. It also pledges to strip the Serious Fraud Office of its independence, which is an inexplicable response to that office’s winning 
Brexit didn’t just doom the prime minister’s career, it also doomed the campaign he was leading to improve the world.
The irony here is that the very problems Mr. Cameron was seeking to cure helped drive the movement that dethroned him. A powerful pro-Brexit poster featured thousands of brown-skinned people queuing to enter the European Union, along with the words “
I never voted for David Cameron, nor did I support him while he was in office. But we shouldn’t let his worst mistake destroy his best initiative.