
LONDON — Half a century ago, wet behind the ears, I sailed from England to Australia. My parents wept. They weren’t sure they’d see me again. A journey of three or four weeks by sea was considered perilous in those days. And even if I did make it to Sydney safely, there was no knowing when, if ever, I’d return.
When I did arrive — in one piece, as it happened — I had to book an international telephone call from the city’s central post office to tell my parents I was O.K. It was two hours before a line became free. You could say that this was the proper way to respect distance. If you’re going halfway around the world, it should seem like it.
Since that time, the world has shrunk. We don’t weep in the arms of our friends before we travel. We can reach anywhere by air in less than a day and report on the progress of the journey every half-hour by cellphone.
Or at least, that was the way it was the day before yesterday. Now inconvenience and apprehension are back.
It’s all more modern and streamlined apprehension, but disquiet is disquiet, and there are humiliations thrown in today, as well. We wait like animals in pens. We remove items of clothing before we pass through security. We are frisked. We are questioned. We don’t complain. We understand the necessity. Terrorism has made the most perfunctory journey a jeopardy.
Board the plane itself and you can’t be sure you won’t be manhandled off it. Passengers waiting to travel by British Airways last week didn’t even get that far. Crowded into departure terminals for days, they resembled the damned, massing to cross the River Styx. The company did what companies do — and blamed its computer system.
It has been as bad a few weeks for computers as it has for airlines. Cyber-extortionists took systems down around the world last month. In Britain, the computer system of the already ailing National Health Service was hacked. Bad luck if you were booked for an emergency operation that morning. To the anxiety of wondering if you’d make it out of the operating theater alive was added the anxiety of wondering if you’d make it 
We asked for trouble when we put all our eggs in technology’s basket. But it’s too late to revisit that decision. We have signed up to the machine. Whatever goes wrong is not the result of corporate mismanagement or greed, it’s just faulty software.
And yet, we go on trusting our futures to it. Soon, it will take our jobs. We accept this with a worried shrug. Soon, also, it will drive our cars more safely than we do. This, too, we embrace. Computers can’t reliably keep your doctor’s notes or ticket us onto an airplane, and yet we are about to let them navigate us along superhighways at perhaps 100 miles an hour.
About that, I feel twice as apprehensive as I did when I sailed to Australia. We might be asking our self-drive Mercedes to take us only to the corner shop, but we’ll still be sobbing into the necks of those we love before it drives off with us in it.
“Goodbye, my little ones, I’ll call you from the store. If I get there.”
The phony calm of predictably untroubled travel, like the phony calm of predictably untroubled politics, in which parties of the left exchanged power with parties of the right at regular intervals, is over. Confusion, uncertainty and fear are back.
But are they back because we want them back? Do we, like seafarers of old, crave the hazards of the untraveled void?
The biggest shock to our political certainties was Brexit. No one saw that coming. Even as the votes were being counted on the evening of June 23, 2016, the leader of the U.K. Independence Party, whose only reason for existence was getting Britain out of Europe, as good as conceded defeat. Mistaken as it was, this inured defeatism set the scene for the appearance of a new phenomenon in British politics: the sore winner.
Why those who got what they wanted are unable to be graceful in success is one of the attendant mysteries of Brexit. That the losing Remainers should bellyache is to be expected. I do it every day. But why aren’t the Brexiteers happy?
Maybe some — remembering that spleen directed them to vote in what they assumed to be a losing cause — wished they’d listened to some other humor. But most seem to want to go on rerunning the contest, not only to savor victory again, but also to savor its surprise. Are we becoming “exhilaration of the unanticipated” junkies?
Donald Trump’s unexpected victory in the presidential election followed some of the same patterns. Certainly, Mr. Trump himself took a long time getting used to the idea that he had won, and continues to tweet, if not like a loser exactly, then like an outsider still knocking at the gates of the White House. And the job is so demanding.
“I thought it would be easier,” 
Our prime minister, Theresa May, must know how he feels. Here, we are in the throes of an election no one dreamed she could lose, but which she will now struggle to win. A month ago, Mrs. May was banking on a landslide victory; this week, her government may even lose its majority in the House of Commons.
It has been an improbable turnaround. But we have entered the era of the unlikely. The question now arises: Are we so hooked on savoring improbable outcomes that, consciously or otherwise, we have begun to conspire in making them happen?
No doubt, the Labour leader, Jeremy Corbyn, would attribute the startling change in voters’ perceptions of him to his own resilience in the face of a vicious media onslaught. And it is true that men find themselves in adversity.
It could be, though, that it’s we who have found him.
If we can change, as it were, the feng shui of this election, if we can rearrange the landscape of the possible, we restore to ourselves the illusion of power over an incalculable event. The recent terror attack in London might influence the way we vote on June 8, but we daren’t admit it. We must be our own masters.
So there’s a paradox here. We seek the unexpected, but we want to own our fate. Our taste for the uncertain must have its limits, then. It could be that we arrange surprises for ourselves only in order not to be overwhelmed by those thunderbolts and devastations over which we have no control.