
U.S. allies, including the British and the Dutch, had provided information describing meetings in Europe between people close to the Kremlin and associates of Mr. Trump, former U.S. officials said.
Beyond leaving a trail for investigators, the officials also wanted to help European allies combat the threat of Russian interference in upcoming elections there.
And the U.S. attorney general, Jeff Sessions, is facing questions over two previously undisclosed meetings with Russia’s ambassador last year.
_____
Mr. Trump faces not only a committed Democratic opposition but 
_____
U.N. investigators released 
In Iraq, government forces 
Organizations funded by George Soros, above, the liberal American billionaire, are facing particular ire, accused of working to flood Europe with Muslim refugees and transform “Christian” nations into multicultural stews of left-wing globalism.
It might be a sign that the era of the solo celebrity architect may be over. The award cited “their intensely collaborative way of working together, where the creative process, commitment to vision and all responsibilities are shared equally.”
Some researchers say ancient rocks in a remote geological outpost in Canada 
Such battles, an optimist observed, were “how science progresses.”
• 
When the movie “King Kong” was 
“The film will show prehistoric monsters fighting one another and making weird sounds,” The Times 
It also helped define the career of Bruce Cabot, who played Jack Driscoll, the hero who rescues Fay Wray from the giant ape.
Mr. Cabot’s career didn’t start in acting school. At 14, he scavenged cattle remains on the prairies of New Mexico for bone meal. Work in construction “gave him a democratic outlook on life,” The Times 
After “King Kong,” a series of supporting roles followed, often alongside John Wayne. World War II military service took him back to Europe, where he worked in 
That may have prepared him for one of his last roles: Fighting a fictitious spy named James Bond in “Diamonds Are Forever.”