
Here are the top 10 comments of the week on our digital platforms, as selected by our readers and the journalists who moderate nearly every comment. Some comments were edited for length and clarity.
Fearless Girl is a work of art that incorporates Charging Bull without permission of the copyright owner. Unauthorized use of a copyrighted work — unless it falls within some narrow exceptions — is straight up copyright infringement.
In my opinion, Mr. Da Modica is absolutely correct that Fearless Girl completely changes his sculpture’s meaning. You can’t control how people view your copyrighted work necessarily, but you can certainly prohibit them from using it without authorization. The relevant factual question would be, does Fearless Girl use the bull sculpture.
Fearless Girl is great, but people are unfairly attacking Mr. Da Modica. He could have easily and justifiably simply filed what would be a very strong claim for infringement — but he hasn’t. He’s trying to work things out. THAT is a rare find, indeed.
I sat with her for several hours on the floor of the galley until she was stabilized. 2 weeks after arrival I received a letter from the United Flight Surgeon thanking me for my “service” during that stressful flight. Accompanying his letter was a certificate for $25 off my next ticket on United Airlines. I tore up the letter and the certificate.
I am not surprised by the actions the airline and security personnel took in this unfortunate case nor am I surprised at the airline’s explanation of the incident. Assault and Battery should not be a method of bumping innocent passengers who put their lives in your hand to get them safely from place to place.
WWll ended before sarin could be utilized in that war. For the record most of the more potent organophosphate insecticides (sarin is an organophosphate insecticide) have been banned in the U.S. The irony here is that Spicer says Nazis never used sarin poison gas on its citizens, when in fact they invented it. Given a few more months sarin could have been used in combat or to murder innocents.
True, globalization brought “others” to London, and that makes some in the rest of England resent London, but globalization also brought an increased class divide between the capital and the rest of the country that also explains a lot.
I would have liked to see Britain remain in the EU, but I think The Times could have done a better job highlighting the points of view many hold on the negative effects that globalization has on the fabrics of cities like London.
London has always been the heart of immigrant UK. The East End was home to migrant East European jews in the 19th century, of Germans earlier in the century. Look at the surnames of Londoners compared to those in the shires.
Why has diversity suddenly become an issue?