
LONDON — In the summer of 2013, Britain’s Home Office unveiled a new campaign to tackle unwanted immigration. For a month, vans toured six London boroughs, bearing a poster that read: “In the U.K. illegally? Go home or face arrest.”
The campaign was a failure. According to an official evaluation, only 11 people left the country as a result of the advertisements, and the vans were swiftly retired amid widespread criticism of their authoritarian rhetoric. But they marked a turning point in how Britain approaches immigration: the extension of border control into everyday life.
The minister in charge of the vans was Theresa May. At the time, Mrs. May was the home secretary, the cabinet position responsible for border enforcement, and she said her intention was to make Britain a “hostile environment” for unwanted migrants. Today, she is prime minister, leading the Conservative Party, on an anti-immigrant platform, into a general election on June 8 that it will almost certainly win.
The popular image of a border is a fence or a wall at the geographical frontier of a country. But in a world where capital, communications and people are more mobile than ever before, what is of increasing importance is the way a state distinguishes between who’s included or excluded within its territory. In Britain, these measures have proliferated.
Today, if you want to rent a house, get a driver’s license or open a bank account, you must first show your passport or produce evidence that you’re in the country legally. A crackdown on employers means that uniformed immigration raids have become a regular feature of life in multiethnic neighborhoods. Public bodies that previously had no role in border control are being roped in, too. Since 2016, schools have been asked to collect data on pupils’ nationality and country of birth, which was supposed to be shared with the government department responsible for immigration enforcement until public criticism made officials water down the policy. (An earlier proposal had been to make teachers actually carry out immigration checks.)
A senior health ministry official 
Most of the measures were not in place a decade or even five years ago. Mrs. May first put forth the idea of a “hostile environment” in 2012: enact rules that would either make it difficult for people with irregular immigration status to go about their everyday lives, thus encouraging them to leave, or that would bring them to the attention of the state so that it can deport them.
This crackdown, encoded in the 2014 Immigration Act, was in part the result of political expediency. The governing Conservative Party was elected in 2010 with a promise to “cap” immigration at the tens of thousands. For as long as Britain remains part of the European Union, this cap can’t apply to migrants from within the union because of the common agreement on free movement. But around half the immigrants to Britain — net migration was 273,000 in the year ending September 2016 — come from elsewhere. To make up the numbers, the government has been making life as difficult as possible for would-be migrants from outside Europe. Visa fees are charged at punitive rates, while there is a hefty minimum income requirement for anybody who marries a non-European Union citizen and wants to bring them to live in Britain. Another act, passed last year, has introduced even tougher penalties for those with irregular status, including the new crimes of “illegal working” and “driving when unlawfully present in the U.K.”
The “hostile environment” marks a more profound shift in British politics. As William Davies has 
After last year’s Brexit vote, Mrs. May has risen from home secretary to prime minister — and her appeal rests on using the power of the state to draw lines between the British people and outsiders. “If you believe you’re a citizen of the world, you’re a citizen of nowhere,” she declared last autumn.
This project has a human cost, with minorities the worst affected. Already, there is evidence that ID checks for tenants are encouraging landlords to discriminate. A report in February by the Joint Council for the Welfare of Immigrants found that more than half of landlords surveyed said they were less likely to rent to foreigners as a result of the new policy. The study also found that British citizens of black and ethnic minority backgrounds were finding it harder to rent, too. “British” is still too often treated as a racial identity.
The charges and restrictions in the National Health Service mean that some migrants are avoiding treatment for medical conditions, which threatens not only the individuals concerned but also public health. Women are particularly at risk: A growing number of pregnant women with uncertain immigration status are avoiding prenatal care, according to Doctors of the World, while asylum-seeking women trapped in abusive relationships are being denied access to state-funded safe houses and told to stay with their partners if they want to keep their right to stay in Britain. These measures raise questions, too, about how a government that behaves in this way will treat its own citizens.
At root is a problem affecting much of the world today: How do states maintain control — and a sense of national cohesion — within a global economy? But in Britain, where questions of identity, sovereignty and perceived threats to the nation have come to the fore, it is particularly acute.
The prime minister has staked her reputation on tough immigration controls, having done more than any other politician to push borders into everyday life. She has taken us into a Brexit process and an election campaign where her opponents have been variously characterized as rootless, “enemies of the people” and “saboteurs.” Her party’s election manifesto released earlier this month repeated the pledge to cap immigration and promised further efforts to discourage refugees from claiming asylum in Britain. Unless these trends are challenged, Britain looks set to emerge with a fenced-off, more vindictive and more callous society.