
“I think we have an opportunity to establish overnight a leadership position,” Hamilton E. James, president of Blackstone, said of the $20 billion cornerstone investment by Saudi Arabia’s sovereign wealth fund in his firm’s infrastructure fund.
Blackstone plans to double the size of the investment vehicle, and its establishment comes after promises of a $1 trillion infrastructure initiative by the Trump administration — which would come from government partnerships with the private sector.
Blackstone is steaming ahead with plans. It has already begun 
But will it be as smooth a process as Mr. James describes? There are plenty of factors to consider:
• The field is likely to be crowded — infrastructure investing looks attractive to several players, with stock and bond markets richly valued.
• There could be political hurdles. There are no guarantees that the Trump administration will be able to unleash its waves of spending.
• Investment projects tend to take longer than the corporate buyouts and real estate deals that private equity firms are often involved in.
• And it could be tricky navigating deals with such a large and influential partner as Saudi Arabia.
So considering all that, are investors getting prematurely excited?
Blackstone’s stock got a lift after the deal was announced, but the enthusiasm is overdone, if you examine the numbers, Richard Beales 
A policy shop with a trillion-dollar bank on the side — that is how the United States Education Department has been described.
The department, which manages more in assets than most banks, is having its responsibility for those funds reviewed by the Trump administration.
James Runcie, the head of the department’s federal student aid program, resigned on Tuesday, and he revealed the potential change in his resignation memo.
The switch would give responsibility for the student loan program 
But others worry about handing control to a department that is focused on paying for government, rather than on increasing educational opportunities.
The Treasury has also run a pilot project to collect on defaulted loans, a job which the Education Department contracts out. The experiment did not end well, failing to increase collection rates or help borrowers better understand their repayment options.
Another day, another lawsuit over emissions cheating.
A Seattle law firm that specializes in suing automakers has filed a class-action 
This comes just days after the United States filed a lawsuit against 
It is unclear whether environmental regulators will open investigations into G.M. and its emissions-control technology.
G.M. denied the allegations: “These claims are baseless and we will vigorously defend ourselves.”
“Historically speaking, and as a seasoned investor, I’d say investors should just ignore geopolitical events like ‘Brexit’ or whatever is happening in Brazil.”
James B. Stack, president of InvesTech Research and Stack Financial Management. Unexpected events may create volatility in markets, but they often 