
WASHINGTON — 
In what will be their first conversation since Mr. Trump took office, he and President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia intended to 
At the direction of the White House, American officials in recent days have been preparing memos outlining possible common ground, including the prospect of removing some or all of the sanctions imposed by former President Barack Obama, according to officials briefed on the matter. Mr. Trump has suggested lifting the punitive measures in exchange for nuclear arms cuts and Russian cooperation in fighting the Islamic State.
Asked about sanctions on Friday, Mr. Trump played down the possibility of quick action, but did not rule it out.
“As for sanctions, very early to be talking about that,” Mr. Trump said Friday at a White House news conference with Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain. “But we look to have a great relationship with all countries, ideally.”
As for Mr. Putin, he offered a far more distant assessment after months of praising the Russian president for his leadership. “I don’t know the gentleman,” Mr. Trump said. “I hope we have a fantastic relationship. That’s possible, and it’s also possible that we won’t. We will see what happens.”
Join Times reporters for live updates and analysis from President Trump’s joint news conference with Prime Minister Theresa May of Great Britain.
Standing at Mr. Trump’s side, Mrs. May warned against easing sanctions unless Russia abides by a peace settlement for Ukraine negotiated in Minsk, the capital of Belarus. “We believe the sanctions should continue until we see that Minsk Agreement fully implemented, and we’ve been continuing to argue that inside the European Union,” she said.
Any talk of lifting sanctions is all but certain to spark the first serious conflagration between Mr. Trump and congressional Republicans, who have largely given the president a pass on 
Senator John McCain of Arizona warned Mr. Trump on Friday against lifting sanctions and vowed to push legislation reinstating them if he does, a measure that already has strong bipartisan support, including from Republicans like Senators Rob Portman of Ohio and Ben Sasse of Nebraska. Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, who has largely shunned confrontation with Mr. Trump, has been a longstanding opponent of lifting sanctions, a position he forcefully
In a scathing statement against Mr. Putin, Mr. McCain cataloged all of Russia’s controversial actions in Ukraine, Syria and elsewhere and said it could not be trusted as a partner.
“President Trump should remember this when he speaks to Vladimir Putin,” Mr. McCain said. “He should remember that the man on the other end of the line is a murderer and a thug who seeks to undermine American national security interests at every turn. For our commander in chief to think otherwise would be naïve and dangerous.”
Mr. Portman concurred, saying in a statement, “We must stand by our allies in the region, including Ukraine.”
Mr. Trump’s meeting with Mrs. May was his first with a visiting foreign leader since taking office with a promise to pursue an “America First” foreign policy. For Mr. Trump, it was a debut on the world stage that took on additional meaning after a scheduled White House visit by Mexico’s president next week fell apart in a dispute over the border wall Mr. Trump wants to build.
Mr. Trump appeared comfortable and confident with Mrs. May standing to his right. He offered a brief opening statement that referred twice to the “special relationship” between the two countries, a phrase Britons take seriously. He offered crisp answers, in contrast to Mr. Obama, who tended to talk at length. While Mr. Trump did not demonstrate detailed policy knowledge, he went out of his way to emphasize commonalities with Mrs. May.
He also tried to reassure Europeans who view him with deep skepticism. When a British reporter referred to him as a “brash TV extrovert,” Mr. Trump replied, “Actually, I’m not as brash as you might think.”
Mrs. May, eager to 
Addressing one area of disagreement, Mrs. May said that the president had privately expressed his support for NATO, despite past comments disparaging the alliance as “obsolete.” “Mr. President,” she said, “I think you said, you confirmed that you’re 100 percent behind NATO.”
Mr. Trump embraced the decision by British voters to exit the European Union, a referendum known as “Brexit” that he and others have seen as a precursor to his own election. “I think Brexit’s going to be a wonderful thing for your country,” he said. “I think when it irons out, you’re going to have your identity and you’re going to have the people that you want in your country.”
Mr. Trump and Mrs. May talked about 
Ms. May is not the only European leader worried about Mr. Trump’s blossoming friendship with Russia, which United States intelligence agencies have concluded hacked Democratic email accounts to influence the American election last year. Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany has been a leading voice of keeping the pressure on the Kremlin, and Mr. Trump is scheduled to talk with her by telephone, too.
The United States and Europe have imposed sanctions on Russian officials and companies, mainly in response to the seizure and annexation of Crimea and the separatist war fomented in eastern Ukraine. Before leaving office, Mr. Obama imposed 
In an 
One topic that may come up on Saturday’s call is 