
LONDON — In April, after Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain announced that she would hold a general election on June 8, the first celebrity endorsements were for Jeremy Corbyn, the leader of the Labour Party. And they came from an unlikely source: Britain’s thriving answer to rap music, known as grime.
The spontaneity and extent of the endorsements, most of them appearing within a day or two of Mrs. May’s announcement, caught people by surprise. Jme, a grime star and the founder of Boy Better Know records, 
On the face of it, Mr. Corbyn, a teetotal, vegetarian, 68-year-old bicyclist, and the hip, young grime M.C.s make for unlikely allies. But the pairing makes sense: Like rap music in the United States, 
Stormzy, who scored a No. 1 album in March with his debut “Gang Signs and Prayer,” put it best when he 
As grime M.C.s and their fans have generated support for Labour ahead of the vote, they are proving why Mr. Corbyn’s centrist critics within the party might be wrong about their leader — and showing how the party could someday find a path to victory.
Since Mr. Corbyn’s grass-roots campaign and resounding victory in the 
The smears have continued. Alan Johnson, a former senior Labour minister and Tony Blair ally, has railed against “worse than self-indulgent" and “tyrannical” left-wingers, “mainly middle-class people who are not going to feel any difference with changes of government.” Simon Danczuk, a centrist Labour member of Parliament, has condemned the “sniffy metropolitan elites.”
These attacks from the right wing of the party paint Mr. Corbyn’s supporters as affluent, elitist urbanites, out of touch with traditional working-class Labour voters who have been left behind by globalization. This demographic — at least according to its ventriloquists — is angry about immigration, pro-Brexit and socially conservative, and hates the vegetarian intellectuals who have taken over Labour.
It is true that many areas that historically voted for Labour also voted to leave the European Union in last year’s referendum, even though a majority of Labour voters supported remaining in the union.
But Labour’s estrangement from, well, labor has its roots in decades of complacency in the party’s right wing. “The people of South Wales will always vote Labour because they’ve got nowhere else to go,” Tony Blair’s right-hand man Peter Mandelson supposedly said of the party’s mining heartlands in the mid-1990s. (The quote may be apocryphal but it certainly encapsulates the Blairite attitude.) It turned out that working-class voters did have somewhere else to go: the nationalist U.K. Independence Party.
The Labour Party has for too long been ignoring an existential crisis, following the hemorrhaging of much of its working-class vote to UKIP, as well as to the Scottish National Party. The received wisdom is that since the Brexit referendum, with UKIP’s goal essentially achieved, these white working-class voters in former industrial areas will be mopped up by the Conservatives.
But Mr. Corbyn’s response has been to offer those voters more socialism — rather than more xenophobia. And it seems to be working.
Moreover, analysis of Mr. Corbyn’s support shows that the idea that it is largely composed of privileged lefties is nonsense: 
After 18 months of internal mutinies and rough treatment from a hostile press, Mr. Corbyn’s Labour began the election campaign desperately far behind the Conservatives in the polls. But a strong campaign and a popular election manifesto seem to be 
Labour needs both ex-miners in South Wales who voted Leave in the referendum as well as urban youth who have never voted. Mr. Corbyn’s team has presented a bold, unabashedly socialist program that targets deprived postindustrial communities and big-city grime M.C.s alike, with tax hikes for the richest, a huge spending program on social housing, a big increase in the minimum wage, the abolition of university fees and a ban on unpaid internships, among other things. Immediate polling has found 
But for Labour to achieve a shock as big as Donald Trump’s presidential victory, it needs an unprecedented high youth turnout on June 8.
To this end, homemade 
Halfway through the campaign, a new website, 
“Political change doesn’t always come from politicians, does it?” Mr. Corbyn asked Jme when they met recently. To provide a seismic shock to the British establishment, the Labour leader will be counting on the grime scene to prove him right.