
Transport for London, the city’s transportation regulator, said on Friday that 
The regulator, known as TfL, said in a 
It also argued that Uber had demonstrated a “lack of corporate responsibility in relation to a number of issues.”
The regulator’s complaints also touched on:
•The company’s approach to reporting serious criminal offenses,
• Its approach to background checks on drivers for the service, and
• Uber’s explanations about how it used Greyball software to prevent regulators from gaining full access to the app.
From a statement by an Uber spokesman:
Joe Murphy, the political editor of London’s Evening Standard newspaper, had this to say on Twitter:
Lawmakers had complained that Facebook had turned over evidence of Russian-linked political advertisements to special counsel Robert S. Mueller, but not to Congress.
The technology giant is now bowing to the pressure, agreeing to turn over more than 3,000 of those ads to congressional investigators.
• The service will now show which Facebook page paid for the ad, and the advertiser’s page will show all the ads the entity is running. (Still, that doesn’t necessarily identify who is running the page.)
• “We will strengthen our ad review process for political ads,” Mr. Zuckerberg promised.
• Facebook will hire 250 more employees for its security team.
• The company will expand coordination with global election commissions.
• It also promised to work closely with other technology companies to share threat information.
Mr. Zuckerberg also said Facebook was monitoring activity related to the German elections on Sunday:
Senator Mark Warner of Virginia, the top Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee, to The Times:
Representative Adam Schiff of California, the senior Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, to 
Facebook is trying to stave off stricter government regulation. Tech executives have been worried that new rules could lay huge burdens on the world’s biggest advertising business.
Facebook says it is not legally allowed to share everything it knows about advertisers, but some in the industry worry that could change. The Times’s media columnist, Jim Rutenberg, 
At the same time, Facebook and Alphabet are finding themselves under pressure from older tech companies and other sometime allies.
From 
• 
He also complained about perceptions among the media that he is being inauthentic:
• 
• From 
• Yoshua Bengio, a professor at the University of Montreal and a pioneer in artificial intelligence, wants more government regulation of the big tech companies, according to 
• Mr. Zuckerberg may deny that he’s running for political office. But 
After months of very public infighting among her cabinet members, Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain appears ready to commit to a negotiating strategy for her country’s exit from the European Union.
At a speech in Florence today, Ms. May is expected to announce plans for a two-year transition period after leaving the political bloc.
From 
The assessment of 
Britain is hoping to keep the financial services sector from fleeing to continental Europe with a more industry-friendly approach to regulation.
From 
For years, L’Oréal’s independence was all but guaranteed by the 33-percent stake held by the family of Liliane Bettencourt, the daughter of the founder of the cosmetics giant.
The Swiss conglomerate has long said that it views the holding as long-term and strategic. (Third Point’s Daniel S. Loeb, who is urging changes at Nestlé, disagrees: He wants the company to 
A spokeswoman for Nestlé told DealBook that the company declined to comment beyond this statement:
Shares of L’Oréal were up 3.5 percent this morning on the Euronext Paris stock exchange, at 182.80 euros, or nearly $218, their highest level since July.
Mrs. Bettencourt was long regarded as the richest woman in the world. (Bloomberg estimates her net worth at 
But her later years were marked by controversy. From the obituary by 
This became a government scandal, too, when a former family accountant suggested that Mrs. Bettencourt had made contributions to Nicolas Sarkozy shortly before his election as president of France.
Ms. Ruden recounts how a student in a Latin class she had taught was outraged at having received an A-minus.
From her piece:
Ms. Ruden adds: