
The previously unreported journals speak to a key issue for Olympic officials: the state’s involvement in the widespread sports fraud. 
Consequences are expected to extend beyond the next Winter Games, as the cheating that investigators confirmed stretched across seasons, sports and years. (Above, Team Russia at the Games in Sochi in 2014.)
_____
The crisis left Dublin vulnerable before talks on the future of its border with Britain after Brexit. Dublin fears that the reintroduction of any kind of border controls would 
Meanwhile in Britain, Facebook and Twitter 
_____
What ties them together, a Czech scholar said, is that populists “ride the wave of anxiety — about globalization, migration and new phenomena — and appeal to those looking for some protection.”
But the variety of the populists’ targets means that there is no united movement that will spread, a British historian said. “There is no single virus,” he said, “and I don’t think there is a lot of staying power.”
_____
Meanwhile, allegations of sexual improprieties that have entangled John Conyers, the longest serving member of the House, have 
And our White House correspondents retraced President Trump’s 
_____
It could be further evidence that the chemicals that govern our body clocks are linked to events in the sky.
Call it the Trumpchi conundrum. China finally feels it has a car capable of following Japan, Germany and South Korea 
The Chinese automaker GAC Motor insists that its popular Trumpchi vehicles, which went into mass production in 2010, have 
Even so, when we reported last week on plans 
Automotive history, littered as it is 
There’s been the 
Volkswagen offered the 
General Motors has long been ridiculed for marketing the Chevy Nova in Spanish-speaking countries, where the name translates to “doesn’t go” (“no va”). The Nova actually 
GAC officials told our Shanghai bureau chief that, in Chinese, Trumpchi sounds a little like “passing on happiness.” Any decision on changing the name, they said, would be announced in January — at an auto show in Detroit.