
William A. Ackman — not usually known for his contrition — has 
Mr. Ackman acknowledged in his annual letter to investors that his bet on Valeant Pharmaceuticals had been a “huge mistake” that cost his firm, Pershing Square Capital Management, a “tremendous amount.”
“I deeply and profoundly apologize,” he said.
Mr. Ackman sold his stake in Valeant after months of defending the company during scrutiny by regulators. In the end, the investment resulted in a $4 billion loss for Pershing.
The investment, he wrote in the annual letter, had damaged the firm’s record.
“My approach to mistakes is that I personally assume 100 percent of the responsibility on behalf of the firm while sharing the credit for our success,” he wrote.
Britain has finally started the legal process of leaving the European Union. What does that mean?
Well, not much yet, because nothing substantive has actually happened.
London’s status as a financial center, and Britain’s trading relationship with Europe, depend on what comes next.
If a deal is not struck before the two-year deadline, London’s bankers could be effectively severed from the European Union and many transactions based on the Continent would then be rendered illegal.
Some companies already have their sights set on Europe and will start shifting jobs out soon.
Just hours after Britain formally opened the negotiation process, Lloyd’s of London, the insurance market which derives 10 percent of its revenue from the European Union, said that it planned to open a European office in Brussels, 
The two years is enough for businesses to adapt, but they will have to make decisions quickly, said Nicolas Véron, an economist and senior fellow at Bruegel, a research institution in Brussels.
The economy has been more resilient than expected, but it may not stay rosy for long, writes 
Prime Minister Theresa May has so far been able to avoid questions about the sorts of trade barriers that will be erected, and the financial markets were muted on the news of Britain’s starting the exit process.
Mrs. May’s letter starting the withdrawal called for unity, but investors may be underestimating how closely political divorces can match real ones for bitterness and damage.
How might a demand for arbitration by Google help Uber defend itself in a legal dispute involving Anthony Levandowski, the head of the ride-sharing app’s self-driving car unit?
Waymo, an autonomous-car business that was spun out into a subsidiary of Google’s parent company, has accused Mr. Levandowski, who joined Uber six months after leaving Google, of colluding with Uber to steal information about Waymo’s self-driving technology.
Uber bought Mr. Levandowski’s start-up, Otto, for $680 million in August.
But before the Waymo lawsuit was filed, Google had demanded arbitration against Mr. Levandowski, asserting that he had used confidential salary information while trying to poach former colleagues to join Otto.
Now, Uber wants to use the Google demand to 
Arbitration would be cheaper and faster for the companies than a federal lawsuit and would keep the case out of the public eye.