
The Federal Reserve 
Officials are not worried about the slow pace of growth during the first three months of the year. The Fed said the slowdown is “likely to be transitory,” meaning it expects a rebound.
The Fed remains on course to raise rates at least two more times this year. The next increase could come at the Fed’s next meeting, June 13 and 14. – 
• France’s two remaining presidential candidates, Emmanuel Macron and Marine Le Pen, face off in their only televised debate before the decisive second round of the election on Sunday. The debate starts at 3 p.m. E.D.T.
• Tesla, Facebook and Time Warner report earnings.
• HNA Group, a secretive Chinese conglomerate, has become 
• Don’t forget to read the 
The eurozone, the 19-nation common currency area, 
Despite all the uncertainty in the region — from grappling with “Brexit” negotiations to elections in several countries — the economy seems to be holding up.
“Bar a surprise at the French elections on Sunday, eurozone growth is set for a strong 2017,” Bert Colijn, a senior economist at ING, said in a note to clients.
Market reaction was muted (the figures were in line with forecasts), but the impact of a strengthening economy could still be considerable: Stronger growth would put pressure on policy makers at the European Central Bank to withdraw monetary stimulus sooner than expected.
Volkswagen’s operating profit rose 27 percent in the first quarter from the year before to 4.4 billion euros, or about $4.8 billion, according to more detailed 
The report confirmed an earlier preliminary report and indicated that the company was on a more stable footing after its emissions scandal and questions about its insular culture.
The results were helped by operating profit from the Volkswagen brand, which rose to €869 million from €73 million the year before.
“Our effort to improve efficiency and productivity across all areas of the company are also paying off,” Matthias Müller, the chief executive, 
Shares slumped almost 1 percent on Wednesday.
The company will hold a news conference on Friday, where it plans to outline its plans to revive its brand, which had struggled with 
BNP Paribas’s 
The French bank said that revenue in its global markets business increased 33 percent in the first three months of the year after it faced “a very challenging market context at the beginning of the year 2016.”
Its shares declined less than 1 percent in early trading in Paris on Wednesday. — 