
Jeff Bezos went shopping and now the entire retail industry is scrambling to secure shelf space.
Even before Amazon’s deal to buy the 
• Walmart agreed to buy the men’s clothing company 
• Target is leading a new investment in Casper, a mattress maker that rose to prominence through e-commerce and plans to announce as soon as today that it 
The Amazon deal for Whole Foods is yet another example of the influence of activist investors — or 
The rise of activist investors and technological change has 
Amazon’s move also illustrates the willingness of Mr. Bezos, its chief executive, to 
While other companies hold back, dreading colossal mistakes, Amazon has made bold bets in a way that few others can emulate.
So, are we going to see fantastical changes to the way we shop? Possibly.
In the short term, we are likely to see Amazon put experimentation into practice, tinkering with how Whole Foods works.
Mr. Bezos is “consumed with improving the present reality on the ground, especially as seen through a customer’s eyes,” 
We can also expect Amazon to push more speedily toward grocery stores 
Over the weekend, Frank Quattrone, the successful technology banker turned exonerated defendant, turned 
Still, for the past several days, Quattrone has criticized the practice of leaking, whether in 
•
You wouldn’t do it if you had a choice. But millions of Americans don’t have an alternative.
People with poor credit histories have resorted to subprime auto loans, with high interest rates and hefty fees, to buy a car because they need to get to work or to the doctor’s office.
These loans 
The lenders, unable to recover the balance of the loans by reselling the cars, have been suing borrowers to collect what remains, sometimes as long as 13 years later.
With defaults rising, banking regulators and economists have started to worry about the spillover from the strain of these loans.
The fallout for low-income Americans could be worse than it was during the mortgage crisis: They cannot turn in the keys and walk away, like they could with mortgages.
Even so, securities tied to the loans are still a profitable and sought-after investment on Wall Street.
• Talks to discuss Britain’s departure from the European Union started today. Prime Minister Theresa May is under increasing pressure to 