
WASHINGTON — Christine Lagarde, the managing director of the International Monetary Fund, joked on Monday about donning “dream binoculars” and seeing the possibility of relocating the group’s headquarters to China.
“We might not be sitting in Washington D.C.,” Ms. Lagarde said at a Center for Global Development event here in which she 
Ms. Lagarde may joke, but her comments reflect a concern that world leaders have about the changing role of the United States in global organizations. The 
When the United States, Britain and other global powers met in Bretton Woods in 1944 near the end of World War II to stabilize the world’s economies, the United States’ overwhelming economic power was reflected in the decision to base both the I.M.F. and the World Bank in its capital. It is a decision that is sometimes questioned given the 
Beijing has signaled its eagerness to play a greater role in the global economy with the rise of Chinese-backed regional institutions, such as the 
And since President Trump gained the White House on an anti-globalization platform, pledging to withdraw from the Paris climate change agreement and rewrite longstanding trade agreements, world leaders, including Ms. Lagarde, have closely observed the changing global role of the United States.
Speaking to a packed audience in the capital, Ms. Lagarde did play down the impact of the United States pursuing an agenda that diverged from that of the I.M.F.
“The world is changing, that is No. 1,” Ms. Lagarde said, pointing out that emerging and low-income countries now contribute around 60 percent of total GDP and 80 percent of global growth.
“No. 2, one needs to look at the deeds more than the creeds and what is actually being done. Where is money actually being invested?”
Despite Ms. Lagarde’s comments, analysts point out the United States’ veto power at the I.M.F. gives Washington a crucial role in the institution. The fund’s leadership is careful to 
“There is no doubt she must be deeply concerned by the turn we have taken in Washington but there is no advantage to her in using inflammatory language,” said Benn Steil, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations.
“At the end, she is a servant of the shareholders and of course, one in particular has overwhelming power with the organization, so the best she can do is prod.”
In her remarks on Monday, Ms. Lagarde also discussed the I.M.F.’s latest 
It revised its forecasts downward for Britain, given the risks around Brexit, and for the United States, given what Ms. Lagarde labeled “less obvious fiscal development and less rapid infrastructure investment than we had initially thought.”
She identified the major medium-term risks to the world economy as inequality, the “backlash” against globalization, international trade and technological breakthroughs.
She warned of those who feel left behind by globalization — those who feel “there is nothing there for them, as a result of which, populist voices can actually carry the day and prevail over other forces” — a group political analysts have identified as driving Mr. Trump’s win in November.
Having joked about the possibility of the I.M.F. headquarters relocating to Beijing in ten years, she also flagged concerns around China’s commitments to the Paris accord.
“It will be critically important in order to secure staff eagerness to travel that the climate change commitments made by China be actually respected and acted upon,” Ms. Lagarde said.