
LONDON — On this wet and windy Monday, deep in the underbelly of Soho House, the British Fashion Council unveiled the nominees for the 
You could blame it on the turmoil of 
The breakfast announcement was a more low-key event than last year, when 
Once again, Jonathan Anderson dominated proceedings with four nominations (he had four in 2016, too). For his J.W. Anderson label, he was nominated in the British Designer of the Year Menswear and British Designer of the Year Womenswear categories. And for Loewe, where he is creative director, he was nominated as Accessories Designer of the Year and Designer of the Year.
Once again, Alessandro Michele of Gucci was up for the accessories award (he won it last year), as well as Designer of the Year. And once again, Gigi Hadid, winner of Model of the Year in 2016, was back in the running, joined by her younger sister Bella (on the list last year), Adwoa Aboah (on the list last year, too), and Kaia Gerber, the 16-year-old daughter of Cindy Crawford, who appeared on every major fashion week runway last season.
And so it went. Guram Gvasalia, the chief executive of Vetements, was back as a nominee for Business Leader. Vetements itself was up for the Urban Luxe Award (which it won last year).
Raf Simons for Calvin Klein was a new addition to the Designer of the Year shortlist, but then again, this is not his first appearance at the fashion awards-scene rodeo; in June he won both women’s wear designer of the year and men’s wear designer of the year at 
As the audience rose and prepared to face the rain, one couldn’t help but think: for an industry whose raison d’être is an obsession with newness, the awards event scheduled for Dec. 4 at the Royal Albert Hall, which doubtless will be uplifting and in the right spirit, also is running a high risk of feeling like more of the same.
Unsurprisingly, it was among the British Emerging Talent categories, broken into separate awards for men’s wear and women’s wear this year, that some fresher faces finally were mentioned: Charles Jeffrey for 
Interesting, too, was the inclusion of Supreme in the shortlist for Urban Luxe Brand, as the skate wear brand continues its charge closer into the bosom of the fashion establishment.
Perhaps the biggest surprise — and most controversial choice — was the nomination of Maria Grazia Chiuri of Dior as Designer of the Year. Ms. Chiuri has been at the brand’s helm for three seasons now, and a subject of critical debate for almost as long. Dior sales may be robust but 
May the best man, woman or international conglomerate, win.