
The ties that bind the most powerful media mogul in the world to the leader of the free world just keep getting stronger. Or, more precisely, we keep learning just how strong they are.
The question is where that leaves the rest of the world when they’re done divvying it up.
They are Rupert Murdoch — the founder of the corporate news media giants 21st Century Fox and the News Corporation — and President Trump.
The Financial Times 
Ms. Trump gave up that oversight role in December, before her father’s inauguration but well after Election Day.
That means the whole time that Mr. Murdoch’s highly influential news organizations were covering Mr. Trump’s campaign and transition, their executive chairman was entangled in a financial arrangement of the most personal sort — tied to his children’s financial (very) well being — along with the president’s daughter.
Referring to her only as the president’s “daughter” fails to capture her true role. She is Mr. Trump’s most trusted confidante. And she is married to a key presidential adviser, Jared Kushner, who, as it happens, is so close with Mr. Murdoch that he even helped Mr. Murdoch set up his bachelor pad after his last divorce, 
The latest news about the Murdoch-Trump axis is acutely problematic for the leadership at The Wall Street Journal — owned by News Corp. — as it seeks to quell a rebellion by a group of staff members who believe that the paper has held them back from more aggressively covering Mr. Trump, they suspect, under pressure from Mr. Murdoch. (As Joe Pompeo of Politico 
But the relationship between the president and Mr. Murdoch has implications well beyond The Journal, given the global breadth of Mr. Murdoch’s media holdings, his history of putting them to use for political leaders who then help him with his own business needs and Mr. Trump’s own reactivity to the news media.
How it all affects the rest of us depends on how powerfully Mr. Murdoch’s news media properties swing behind the new presidential agenda and how much criticism of Mr. Trump they’ll abide from their journalists and commentators. And all of that could depend on what Mr. Murdoch wants from the administration, and how badly he wants it.
After Mr. Murdoch “used the editorial page, the front page and every other page” of The New York Post “to elect Ronald Reagan president,” as the Republican congressman Jack Kemp 
In the George W. Bush years, when 
Now Mr. Murdoch’s rivals are trying to guess what he might seek from Washington, having reached the apex of his American power at 85 with the closest ties to a White House that he’s ever had.
At the very least, they are girding for him to use his influence to block AT&T’s proposed purchase of Time Warner, which Mr. Trump 
They read the tea leaves last week in The New York Post, where Mr. Murdoch’s conservative-populist fingerprints are most easily dusted into view. The paper, the first one Mr. Trump reads each morning, ran 
Picking up on a 
But the reverse is true, too, which is potentially more good news for Mr. Murdoch.
His coziness with the president is not a given. “I’m a little surprised that Rupert seems as well disposed to Trump as he is,” said William Kristol, a conservative Trump critic who co-founded The Weekly Standard under the auspices of News Corp., which sold it in 2009. “Especially on trade and immigration, he was what Trump’s people call ‘a globalist.’ He may be one of the four most prominent globalists in the world.”
Stephen K. Bannon, a Trump adviser, made a similar observation in an interview 
True, Mr. Murdoch — a longtime free-trade 
He has not reined in the editorial writer 
But as Mr. Trump began to lock down the Republican nomination, Mr. Murdoch 
From the White House, Mr. Trump regularly indicates that he believes no major news media properties have been more helpful, and less problematic, to his cause than Mr. Murdoch’s.
Exhibit A: the 
Fox News provides powerful backing for Mr. Trump, starting with its morning show “Fox & Friends” and ending with its 10 p.m. program, “Hannity,” though its day is interspersed with straight news from journalists like Shepard Smith, Bret Baier and 
With the loss of the 9 p.m. host 
And Fox News’s 
Fox News and The Post are, in a sense, giving Mr. Trump nothing more than it gave his predecessors.
But The Journal’s news pages — the most authoritative of Mr. Murdoch’s American news outlets — are another matter. They have managed to maintain their independence over the years, something Mr. Murdoch promised to protect when he 
Any favorable skew toward Mr. Trump — or away from more critical stories about him — would give the president an imprimatur he’d be only too happy to have.
Journal representatives declined to discuss Mr. Murdoch’s interaction with the paper’s chief editor, Gerard Baker. A spokeswoman, Colleen Schwartz, said that “no one stands in the way” of the paper’s mission to be “fearless, accurate and unbiased.”
Clearly no one did, for instance, when it broke news of the investigation into the national security adviser 
But concerns among some — and certainly not all — members of the staff that the paper is tilting Mr. Trump’s way erupted anew two weeks ago when Mr. Baker wrote
It will be about more than the anxieties of one newsroom. As one of the last bastions of American journalism, The Journal is a pillar of the fourth estate meant to hold the powerful to account. Mr. Murdoch will have to decide whether its independent ink is thicker than his corporate ambitions, political ideology or ties to the new family at the White House.