
STRASBOURG, France — Marine Le Pen, the far-right leader 
Even so, Ms. Le Pen is willing to accept a salary of 101,808 euros (about $110,000), a generous per diem and an annual staff and office budget in excess of €340,000. In February, the Parliament halved her compensation after fraud investigators concluded that she had wrongly diverted money to pay for National Front party activities in France.
The scandal, which has not fazed Ms. Le Pen’s supporters in France, is another example of how Europe’s right-wing parties happily provoke populist fury by attacking the European Union — yet also happily pocket government salaries and other benefits. For some far-right politicians, a perch in the European Parliament can mean a lucrative sinecure, easy news media exposure and immunity from criminal prosecution at home.
“We are in a totally schizophrenic situation,” said 
For decades, Ms. Le Pen’s National Front and other parties on Europe’s far right have drawn a strange legitimacy by winning seats in the European Parliament. They blame European institutions for being onerous bureaucracies and lacking democratic accountability even as they enjoy the perks of office and generally shun the daily grind of legislative work.
Winning seats in the European Parliament is often easier for them than winning at home, because turnout is anemic, boosting the chances for well-organized protest candidates. The National Front, with more than 20 lawmakers including Ms. Le Pen and her father, 
In 2014, anti-European fringe parties had 
European institutions in Brussels are routinely criticized as lacking democratic accountability. The European Parliament, whose members are directly elected, is supposed to be the answer to that complaint. But anti-Europe lawmakers instead often use the Parliament, based in Strasbourg, France, to attack the European Union.
The overall expenses of salaries, benefits and other funds for far-right Euroskeptic lawmakers and their staffs cost European Union taxpayers about €55 million this year, according to Thilo Janssen, a political scientist who has studied the far right and who advises a left-wing lawmaker in Parliament.
Even more ironic, the Parliament provides a platform for these lawmakers to network and coordinate their anti-Europe efforts — and to get paid for it. They have formed political groups, the main organizational units of Parliament, which allow them to qualify for an array of privileges.
Ms. Le Pen, for example, is co-president of the 
Mr. de Graaff, a fiery ally of the Dutch far-right leader 
“More and more people see through the lies of the E.U. establishment and are joining the patriots,” he told colleagues during a recent address on the floor of Parliament. “The E.U.’s end is approaching.”
Two years ago, when Ms. Le Pen was absent for some votes, Mr. de Graaff covered for her, casting her ballots. She later praised his “chivalrous spirit.” Other lawmakers were less amused. Mr. de Graaff was fined €1,530.
“Unsurpassed insolence,” 
Yet Mr. de Graaff and others mostly shrug off the criticism. Mr. Farage, who helped lead the “Brexit” campaign for Britain to leave the European Union, soaks up free media attention by giving strident, anti-Europe speeches.
Mr. Farage leads another Euroskeptic bloc in Parliament, 
In November, Parliament 
But the U.K. Independence Party used it instead to conduct opinion polls on Brexit, officials found. (The alliance’s executive director said the audit procedure was “biased” and aimed at “silencing” critics of European integration.)
Neither Mr. de Graaff nor Ms. Le Pen responded to requests for comment. But one Le Pen ally, 
Other lawmakers fume at the antics of the far right, but have little recourse.
Far-right members are “hollowing out the whole structure from within, and it’s like tooth decay,” said 
Prominent members like Mr. Weber want to block funding for anti-European parties — including the Alliance for Peace and Freedom, which has three representatives from Greece’s neo-fascist Golden Dawn and one from the neo-Nazi National Democratic Party of Germany in Parliament. That entitled the party to nearly €400,000 last year.
Mr. Weber acknowledged last month that nothing could be done to turn off the money spigot immediately, partly because the rules need to be tightened.
There also are concerns about freedom of speech. “You want to gag us, basically,” 
Ms. Le Pen, for one, has benefited from leading one of the far-right blocs. It entitles her to a prominent placement on the parliamentary benches and choice speaking slots. Eighteen months ago, when President François Hollande of France and Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany tried to rally support for migration policies on the floor of Parliament, Ms. Le Pen rose to give a stinging, and widely publicized, rebuke.
She belittled Mr. Hollande as a German puppet, the “administrator of the province of France.” Her rant, which evoked the Nazi occupation of France during World War II, has been watched at least a half-million times on YouTube.
When he visited the Parliament in February, Justin Trudeau, the Canadian prime minister, did not have lunch with the heads of the political blocs — to avoid encountering Ms. Le Pen, officials speculated at the time.
A number of far-right lawmakers skipped Mr. Trudeau’s speech. Many also joined a boycott in December, when 
The boycott infuriated 
Meanwhile, Ms. Le Pen has also enjoyed another privilege of being a European parliamentarian: immunity.
Last month, French prosecutors persuaded European lawmakers to 
Lawmakers are still considering yet another French request to lift her immunity, in a case of alleged defamation against a former mayor of Nice.
But for now, Ms. Le Pen continues to receive legal protection from a European Parliament she wants to bring down.