
When a senator says that President Trump is making threats that could set the United States “on the path to World War III” — as Senator Bob Corker told the NYT on Sunday — you might expect the entire business community to take notice.
The rebuke by the Tennessee Republican, who has said he won’t run for re-election, poses questions on many issues of importance to corporate leaders.
More from Jonathan Martin and Mark Landler, 
Mr. Trump’s feud with Mr. Corker is particularly perilous given that the president has little margin for error as he tries to pass a landmark overhaul of the tax code — his best, and perhaps last, hope of producing a major legislative achievement this year.
Stock markets so far appear unruffled: S. & P. 500 futures were up slightly, while major European and Asian indexes were down slightly.
In fact, there’s something odd going on with the world’s economies in general, as 
Never mind political turmoil, populist uprisings and threats of nuclear war. From Wall Street to Washington, economists have been upgrading their forecasts for the global economy this year, with the consensus now pointing to an expansion of more than 3 percent — up noticeably from 2.6 percent in 2016.
What is actually worrying the central bankers, finance ministers and money managers gathering in Washington this week for the International Monetary Fund’s meetings?
For Jim Reid, a credit strategist at Deutsche Bank, the overriding worry is that investors and policy makers won’t be prepared for what will happen when global central banks put a halt to their easy-money policies.
Britain, deadlocked with European negotiators over Brexit, is expected to tell other European Union countries that the “ball is in their court.”
In addition to mounting pressure from anxious businesses, the U.K.’s position has been further complicated by Mrs. May’s disastrous party conference speech last week. Some European diplomats wonder whether she will last long enough to deliver on any agreements struck in Brussels.
Many prominent Wall Street firms that did so are losing.
• John A. Paulson, the hedge fund manager, and his firm, Paulson & Company, which have invested billions of dollars.
• Samuel Kirschner, the chief operating offer for CPG Real Estate, which has invested in Puerto Rico for nearly 18 years. He has struggled to get into his properties because of damage from the storm.
• Blackstone Group;
• D. E. Shaw;
• Goldman Sachs;
• Lone Star Funds.
It may be hard to shed tears for such investors. But their interests might be aligned with Puerto Rico’s economy as a whole.
More from NYT:
Tourism supports more than 60,000 jobs in Puerto Rico. Luring deep-pocketed investors from the mainland has the potential to hasten the island’s recovery.
At the moment, though, those investors are staring at hard-to-quantify red ink.
So far, half of its board has resigned, including:
• Dirk Ziff, the billionaire investor;
• Mark Lasry, the co-founder of the Avenue Capital Management hedge fund;
• Paul Tudor Jones, the hedge fund mogul;
• Tim Sarnoff, the deputy chief executive of Technicolor.
• 
• In 2015, 
• Worth noting: Disney bought Miramax from the Weinstein brothers in 1993 and employed them for 12 years afterward, until they left to form their own studio.
Is there a Weinstein Company without Harvey Weinstein?
“Without Harvey actively managing, the Weinstein Company will become even more capital constrained — tougher to find funding,” Harold L. Vogel, a media analyst and the author of the book “Entertainment Industry Economics,” wrote in an email on Friday.
P. & G.’s battle with Nelson Peltz is already the most expensive in history, with each side having spent at least $60 million in their campaigns. The fight will come down to a shareholder vote on directors that is scheduled for Tuesday — unless there is a last-minute settlement.
P. & G.’s stock price has languished for the last decade, especially compared to that of its rivals.
The election is also the biggest test yet of the power of activist investors like Mr. Peltz who have increasingly influenced major institutional investors.
Rob Cox, 
One financial adviser who represents some smaller P. & G. investors suggested that the company may be in for a rough day.
Julie Creswell, 
The German lender’s C.E.O., John Cryan, hasn’t yet met with the embattled Chinese conglomerate HNA.
That has rattled Mr. Cryan’s chairman, Paul Achleitner, who was an architect of HNA’s purchase of a 9.9 percent stake in Deutsche Bank in March.
Steven Arnos, 
Two attempts to arrange a meeting between Cryan, 56, and HNA have failed, according to a person familiar with the matter who asked not to be identified because the discussion is private. The strategic overhaul announced in March was underpinned by a rights offer that hauled in 8 billion euros ($9.4 billions) for Deutsche Bank.
A Deutsche Bank spokesman said of Mr. Cryan, “Yes, he hasn’t met him, but of course he will.”
Jenny Strasburg, 
German and European regulators are reviewing the company, its funding and its Deutsche Bank holding, including what influence HNA might have over the bank as its largest shareholder. The closely held company had faced mounting questions about its ownership and potential ties to the Chinese government as it has ramped up overseas investment.
Investors around Wall Street are talking about a research paper from Hendrik Bessembinder of Arizona State University.
The entire net gain in the U.S. stock market since 1926 is attributable to the best-performing four percent of listed stocks, as the other ninety six percent collectively matched one-month Treasury bills.
The results help to explain why active strategies, which tend to be poorly diversified, most often underperform.
The 2017 Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences was awarded to Richard Thaler, who appeared in 
His empirical findings and theoretical insights have been instrumental in creating the new and rapidly expanding field of behavioral economics, which has had a profound impact on many areas of economic research and policy.
Asked how he would spend the prize money, he replied: “This is quite a funny question.” He added: “I will try to spend it as irrationally as possible.”