
Here in UK, lots of hand-wringing from CEOs over 
It’s not the first time that the Goldman Sachs chief has referenced Britain’s plans to leave the European Union on Twitter. (See 
The Justice Department hasn’t sued to block AT&T’s $85.4 billion takeover of Time Warner — not yet, anyway. But its antitrust chief, Makan Delrahim, has laid out the principles that would guide that lawsuit when, or if, it is filed.
Our colleague Cecilia Kang was on hand for Mr. Delrahim’s speech, delivered at the American Bar Association’s Fall Forum. Here are the parts of the speech she found most important:
“Like any regulatory scheme, behavioral remedies require centralized decisions instead of a free market process. They also set static rules devoid of the dynamic realities of the market. With limited information, how can antitrust lawyers hope to write rules that distort competitive incentives just enough to undo the damage done by a merger, for years to come? I don’t think I’m smart enough to do that.”
“To be clear, that cuts both ways—if a merger is illegal, we should only accept a clean and complete solution, but if the merger is legal we should 
Liberty Media Chairman John Malone 
• “If you’re in the B2C business, if you’re selling anything to any consumer anywhere on the planet, you gotta believe that Amazon is gonna have a look at that opportunity to commoditize you to use scale to serve the public,” Mr. Malone told CNBC’s David Faber during an interview at the Liberty Media annual investor meeting.
• Mr. Malone also said that “it’s way too late” for the cable industry to compete with Netflix. “The only outfit right now that has a chance of overtaking them would be Amazon.”
Now that Emerson has 
Here’s what Emerson is offering now: $135 a share in cash and $90 worth of new Emerson shares for each Rockwell share. The new bid is about 60 percent cash, while the last offer was split evenly between cash and stock.
Rockwell shares are up nearly 5 percent, though at $197.51 they remain well below the new offer price, suggesting that investors remain wary a deal will get done. (They’re still at highs unseen in Rockwell’s history.) Emerson’s shares have rebounded Thursday, after initially dropping on news of the offer and now flat.
Now that Emerson has raised its offer for a third time, there’s a question about which other levers are available to bring Rockwell to the negotiating table. It can’t seek to unseat Rockwell directors — the deadline to nominate board members has already passed — so will Emerson bring its offer directly to shareholders?
Sydney Ember and Andrew Ross Sorkin of the NYT 
It isn’t clear what influence the Kochs would have should Meredith prevail, the NYT reports. But Charles and David Koch have been interested in media investments before, having explored a deal for the business now known as Tronc (including the L.A. Times and the Chicago Tribune) four years ago.
Peter Kafka of Recode says there’s a case for this being 
So it’s possible the Kochs are making a purely economic bet here, and they believe a version of the pitch Time Inc.’s management has been making for years: We’re going to use our declining print business to build a new digital business. (Time Inc.’s digital ad revenues passed $500 million last year — a number that Time Inc. execs like to compare to BuzzFeed, which did about half of that in the same time frame.)
Norway’s trillion-dollar sovereign wealth fund has proposed to its finance ministry dropping oil and gas companies from its benchmark index, 
The aim is to reduce the fund’s exposure to a drop in oil and gas prices. These holdings make up 6 percent or about $37 billion of the fund’s benchmark equity index.
“While the central bank said the view was not based on any prediction of future oil and gas commodity prices or the ‘sustainability’ of the sector, the move will be closely watched given the fund’s clout in global equity markets.”
P. & G.’s 
P. & G.’s 
Mr. Peltz and his Trian Partners haven’t won yet — the consumer goods giant 
A narrow victory, 
Lex points to a
Previous mishaps have included Yahoo in 2008 overstating the support for its chairman. T Rowe Price, the asset manager, was disenfranchised in its attempt to intervene in the 2013 sale of Dell after another glitch on recording ownership.
The House is expected to approve its tax legislation today. But Republicans in the Senate must now deal with even more uncertainty over the fate of their bill.
• That change to the taxation of stock options that Silicon Valley hated is gone. (
• Lobbyists for smaller trade groups are struggling to be heard because of the speed of the legislative process. (
• Mark Cuban asserts that a cut in the corporate tax rate wouldn’t change how he does business. (
• Check out this fascinating visual breakdown of the House tax bill. (
The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency was once 
The changes are happening not by congressional action or a rule-making process, but through the pen of the agency’s interim leader, Keith A. Noreika, who has deep connections to the industry. Among the shifts: making it easier for Wall Street to offer payday-style loans and clashing with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
But changes may be coming soon to the C.F.P.B. after its director, Richard Cordray, said he would 
Now President Trump can reshape the agency, while Mr. Cordray may run for governor in Ohio, his home state.
Expect plenty of questions for Makan Delrahim, the Justice Department’s antitrust chief, when he speaks at the American Bar Association’s 
In the meantime, the Justice Department has 
At the same time, AT&T has deployed its 
In communications with Capitol Hill, the company has highlighted Trump’s hostile relationship with CNN and suggested a political motive for requests that CNN be sold, one of the people said. The White House has denied involvement in the talks.
• Michael Santorelli of New York Law School writes, “The Justice Department should approve the merger and get to work policing the real threats to competition and consumer welfare.” (
• Tara Lachapelle writes, “The good news for Time Warner shareholders is that there probably isn’t much, if any, downside from here.” (
Fake job interviews and undercover agents who formerly worked for the Israeli military. These are among the tools of trade used by Black Cube, the firm hired by Harvey Weinstein to look into the backgrounds of women who had accused him of sexual assault and harassment.
From 
Earlier this month, a former hedge fund employee was flown from Hong Kong to London for a job interview. Around the same time, a current employee of the same Toronto hedge fund was also flown to London for interviews. The company courting them was fake. Its website was fake. There were no jobs to be had, and the woman who set up the interviews was not a recruiter but an agent working for an Israeli private investigative firm.
The WSJ took a 
Masayoshi Son’s conglomerate is set to begin an offer to buy Uber shares, but at two different valuations: about $50 billion for stock bought from shareholders, and $68 billion for new stock. That raises the question of what the ride-hailing giant 
Another publication has followed Forbes in declaring that the commerce secretary is not a billionaire. Bloomberg 
And three former employees of his investment firm, W.L. Ross & Company, 