
The Bagger met up with Andrew Garfield, the star of Mel Gibson’s “Hacksaw Ridge” and Martin Scorsese’s “Silence,” in Los Angeles a few days after the presidential election, when the blue cities and so-called coastal elites were still quivering in shock over the results. The chat was for 
With Oscar nominations next week (Mr. Garfield is 
That’s the weird thing. On the one hand, there’s what happens between action and cut, but then you hit the red carpet and it’s like, “Be a product.” You don’t get to go and do the artistic things anymore. That’s not entirely true: I could do plays [for basic union pay]. I think I could just do plays for my life and have a pretty delightful existence.
I think about it a lot. I’m dancing with it. I’m always dancing with how much exposure I want as a human being and I’m also trying to be aware that if I get to do things like “Silence” and “Hacksaw Ridge,” they hold medicine, I believe, for an audience.
Well, war is a bit much. Someone’s gotta do it. I really mean that. If he shied away from it, Desmond’s actions would not have been remarkable. Speak to people that served about that because we have, and Mel has, and Mel was like, “I haven’t gone far enough.” And all the vets he’s spoken to and I’ve spoken to have said it’s worse than that.
There’s so much projection that goes on and it takes people out of their own lives, out of living out their dreams. I think it’s another form of numbing. You click on a gossip thing and it’s like I can just either kind of exalt or denigrate someone else. It’s just an illusion.
It’s the perfect example of celebrity culture gone very, very dangerous and destructive, and now we have a man in the White House who has literally no political experience and not much — I haven’t seen any humanity or empathy or compassion. All I see is a bully narcissist sociopath who wanted to win. I understand that; there’s a part in all of us that wants to win. But if that part is driving us, we’re a child. And if that part is in the driver’s seat of our country we’re an infant bully country. But that does not represent thankfully more than half of the population of this massive piece of land on this spinning orb.
I’m so lucky that I didn’t come into it with any judgment. I came with a really open heart and a longing to serve because for me the pursuit of God is the pursuit of love, it’s the pursuit of the true self, it’s the pursuit of truth itself, of beauty, of connection. And the great thing about the Jesuits, it’s about finding God in everything. It’s the same as what Hinduism calls the deep self. A mythologist friend of mine calls it the inner genius.
He’s really the elder of the village. I’ve done a few retreats with him and have been lucky enough to have some one-on-one time and he’s really living his true self and making huge ripples in the world in very subtle ways. He holds true wisdom.