
BERLIN — With the French presidential campaign entering its final days, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, a frequent target of attacks from the nationalist candidate Marine Le Pen, stressed her support for Ms. Le Pen’s rival, the pro-Europe Emmanuel Macron, in an interview published on Wednesday.
It is unusual but not unprecedented for a leader of one European country to express support for a like-minded candidate in another. In 2012, Ms. Merkel drew sharp criticism from the center left in Germany after backing President Nicolas Sarkozy, who eventually lost to the Socialist candidate, François Hollande.
The stakes in this year’s French election are even higher, with the fate of the European Union potentially in the balance. Ms. Merkel made her preference clear in an interview with the Kölner Stadt Anzeiger newspaper published in Cologne.
“It is and of course remains the decision of the French voters, in which I am not interfering,” she said. “But I would be pleased should Emmanuel Macron win, because he stands for a consistent, pro-European policy — that I will say too.”
Ms. Merkel, who heads the center-right bloc in the German Parliament and faces elections in September, when she will be seeking a fourth term, added that success for Mr. Macron “would be a positive signal for the political center, which we also want to keep strong here in Germany.”
In a speech on Wednesday to business leaders attending a forum ahead of the Group of 20 meeting in July, Ms. Merkel continued to push the theme that isolation was not the way forward in the global economy. The message seemed clearly directed at Britain and the United States.
A victory for Mr. Macron on Sunday would also send a positive signal for Franco-German relations, Ms. Merkel added. That axis, uniting the Continent’s two biggest powers, has traditionally determined the élan and effectiveness of the European Union.
Ms. Merkel, who said last week that Mr. Macron would make a “strong president” for France, made no mention of his rival. Ms. Le Pen criticized the German chancellor in 2015, when Ms. Merkel visited the European Parliament with the current president of France, François Hollande.
Berlin has been careful to refrain from publicly commenting on the campaign of Ms. Le Pen, who has indicated that she might seek a referendum on France’s use of the euro, if not on membership of the European Union.
There are concerns across Europe that a victory for Ms. Le Pen, in conjunction with Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union, would call into question the viability of the bloc.
It’s unclear whether Germany will revise its economic and financial policies if Mr. Macron wins and seeks changes in European Union affairs. But backing for Mr. Macron from the powerful chancellor would certainly be a prerequisite for any new direction for Europe’s economy, or for the euro.
Mr. Macron already had explicit backing from Ms. Merkel’s vice chancellor, Sigmar Gabriel, a leading member of the center-left Social Democrats in Ms. Merkel’s grand coalition government.
Mr. Gabriel, who also holds the post of foreign minister, got to know Mr. Macron when they were their countries’ economy ministers. “He would be a great president,” Mr. Gabriel said after Mr. Macron finished first in the initial round of the French election, on April 23.
Mr. Macron, 39, is a former banker, and relatively new to politics. His pro-European stance has made him the obvious candidate for the European elite and for citizens who see the European Union as a source of stability and strength that unites 500 million people in one bloc.
Supporters of the European Union are hoping that France will provide a third straight defeat for nationalist candidates. A pro-Europe candidate won Austria’s largely ceremonial presidency in December, beating back a strong challenge from right-wing populists. Then Dutch voters denied the populist nationalist Geert Wilders a first-place finish in parliamentary elections in March.
The difficulties of negotiating Britain’s exit from the European Union and the presidency of Donald J. Trump in the United States have added to doubts among some Europeans about the viability of conservative populism of the kind embraced by Ms. Le Pen.
Ms. Merkel said before the “Brexit” vote in June that she hoped Britain would choose to stay. Since then, she has appealed strongly to the 27 other member states to stick together and strengthen the European Union.