
LONDON — A new year brings a new name for the latest season of the biannual British men’s wear spectacle formerly known as London Collections: Men.
The four-day event, in its fifth year, shall henceforth be known as … 
The rebranding isn’t exactly surprising after a stormy year. The upheaval began when major British player Burberry abandoned its prime position in the local men’s wear festivities in favor of see-now, buy-now runway shows that will take place during women’s fashion week. The turmoil intensified with the “Brexit” referendum, which will put some distance between the tailors of Savile Row and their fashion friends in Paris and Milan.
Despite all that, Caroline Rush, the chief executive of the British Fashion Council, said the rationale for the event’s name change was a sign of its success. “When we first launched the London’s men’s wear shows, the schedule lasted just three days,” Ms. Rush said. “We could hardly call it a week.”
She has a point. Furthermore, she said, now that consumers, rather than editors or buyers, have come to dictate how and why many brands invest in runway shows, it makes sense for the event to have a name that trips more easily off the tongue.
The London men’s shows begin Friday. Here are four to look out for:
Fresh from scooping up the British men’s wear award at the British Fashion Awards last month, 
The 30-year-old graduate of Central Saint Martins has made a name for himself with his quirky takes on wardrobe basics, and his trademark slim quilting has won him a number of celebrity fans, including Drake, Kanye West and Rihanna. Find his latest looks at Barneys New York and Dover Street Market.
The punk pioneer and fashion anarchist 
Ms. Westwood’s shows are always a good time, and her extravaganza Monday should be especially energetic, given that it is her return to London from the men’s wear runways of Milan, where she has shown her goods in recent years.
Born in Cyprus and raised in London, 
As you might imagine, Mr. Chalayan’s approach has occasionally left him on the industry’s commercial fringes since he started his label in 1993. Two years ago, urged on by his regular clients, he reintroduced his men’s wear line after an extended break. On Sunday, he will show his men’s designs in London for the first time.
Grace Wales Bonner, 26, has sent the fashion cognoscenti into a spin with her daring approach to gender and race via ultra-luxe design.
Days after showing a jewel-encrusted, gender-fluid collection of beautifully tailored garments at the London men’s wear shows last June, 
Her show is scheduled for Sunday night.