
It’s that time of year again: The world’s most expensive networking event starts at the snowy resort of Davos in Switzerland on Tuesday.
This year, Xi Jinping will be the 
Here’s 
The big question: How does the so-called Davos Man, a term coined by a political scientist to describe the economic elite, stack up against Donald J. Trump in the world hierarchy? Do the economic policies advocated by global executives at Davos over the years still hold sway after the populist surge of the last year?
“I think it has to do with safety nets and institutions that eliminate some of the costs associated with churn,” Pietra Rivoli, a professor at Georgetown University, said of the populist backlash of the past year. “What you have in the United States is a 
On top of this, many at Davos will be keeping their ears to the ground to figure out what Mr. Trump’s ascent means for efforts to confront the 
The choice of Scott Pruitt 
Closer to home, Democrats and labor advocates are worrying about whether the president-elect’s pick for labor secretary, Andrew F. Puzder, wants to 
While Mr. Puzder’s nomination has already inspired protests, many are also preparing for the Women’s March on Washington on Saturday, after Mr. Trump’s inauguration. The surprising beneficiary has been a 
The investigation into President Park Guen-hye of South Korea was already sprawling. Now Samsung, one of the world’s largest conglomerates, has been drawn in.
If Mr. Lee is arrested, it will be a landmark step in South Korea’s efforts to fight corruption within the country’s powerful family-controlled conglomerates, and could disrupt his efforts to inherit management control of Samsung.
“These days, car companies procure parts around the world now as a matter of course. The important thing is to find a sponsor who can restore Takata’s reputation, which won’t be easy, and to do it quickly.”
— Yoshio Tsukuda, the founder of the Tsukuda Mobility Research Institute, an auto industry research firm. After pleading guilty and agreeing to a $1 billion fine, Takata has taken a step toward putting the scandal over its deadly airbags behind it. Now, it is 
With tax payments coming up, it’s not just taxpayers that are scrambling. Tax-preparation companies are so desperate for business that they are offering money upfront to customers, in anticipation of their tax refund.
Tax preparers have been hurt by the widespread availability of cheap, sometimes even free, online tax-filing alternatives. Regulators have also clamped down on so-called refund anticipation loans, which the companies have relied on to lure in people who needed cash.
But some investors are unimpressed.
A Morgan Stanley analyst recently downgraded one of these companies, saying that the loans “