
LONDON — The referendum on British membership in the European Union and several terrorist attacks, including 
The “Brexit” campaign last year to leave the European Union was supported by some right-wing and nationalist groups, and the vote gave rise to concerns that minorities and immigrants would be more vulnerable to hate crimes.
In addition, provisional data collected around the time of terrorist attacks this year in London and in Manchester, where 
But the rise can be attributed in part to increased public awareness and 
Many of the changes stem from the racially charged 
The authorities have also improved their capacity to record and document attacks, and victims are widely believed to feel more comfortable going to the police.
“Britain is no more or less bigoted than any other country, for example in Europe,” said Professor Iganski, adding that the increase “reflects the advances made by the criminal justice and the police” in dealing with hate crimes.
Nearly 80 percent of such crimes were based on race, according to the report. About 10 percent were based on sexual orientation and 7 percent on religion. Seven percent of hate crimes were based on a person’s disability and a further 2 percent were transgender-related hate crimes. (It is possible for a hate crime to have more than one motivating factor, the report said.)
The home secretary, Amber Rudd, said that there was “absolutely no place” for hate crime in Britain, and that she welcomed the news that victims were more confident that the authorities would treat hate-crime accusations seriously.
“But no one in Britain should have to suffer violent prejudice,” she said, “and indications that there was a genuine rise in the number of offenses immediately following each of this year’s terror attacks is undoubtedly concerning.”
The number of hate crimes decreased in the days after 
“I think they’ll continue to rise,” Professor Iganski said. “As the Brexit negotiations become more entrenched, they’re a constant reminder of the position of eastern European migrants, contributing to a climate of hostility. As we draw closer to the deadline, and as negotiations get tougher, the climate is going to get worse. And every time we have a terror attack there’ll be a backlash. Each time it goes up a notch.”
The hate crime figures were released on the same day that the head of the country’s domestic spy service, MI5, warned that Britain was facing a surge in terrorist threats that were increasingly hard to detect and on a scale previously unseen.
“We’re contending with an intense U.K. terrorist threat from Islamist extremists,” the organization’s chief, Andrew Parker, said in a rare speech in London. “That threat is multidimensional, evolving rapidly and operating at a scale and pace we’ve not seen before.”
“Attacks can sometimes accelerate from inception through planning to action in just a handful of days,” Mr. Parker added.