
LONDON — The British defense contractor BAE Systems said on Tuesday that it would cut nearly 2,000 jobs and reorganize its management structure in an effort to reshape its business and to cut costs as orders slow for military jets.
The job losses at one of Britain’s largest manufacturers come at a fraught time in the country’s negotiations to leave the European Union, 
Concerns about the pace of those talks — and the possibility that Britain could find itself without a trade deal with the remaining 27 countries in the bloc — have cast a shadow on the future of the British economy. The loss of manufacturing jobs is a particularly sensitive topic as Britain seeks to go its own way.
Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain sought recently to intervene in a trade dispute between the United States and Canada after the Trump administration 
The structural changes and job cuts at BAE Systems are expected to center on the company’s British operations, which employ about 34,600 people. The company’s American operations are not part of the reorganization.
BAE Systems employs about 83,100 people worldwide, including 29,500 in the United States.
The overhaul at the company is the first major move by Charles Woodburn, who took over as chief executive in July.
“These changes will drive competitiveness, accelerate technology innovation, and deliver continued improvements in efficiency and operational excellence,” BAE said in a 
Unite, the largest union in Britain, criticized the planned cuts on Tuesday, calling them “devastatingly shortsighted” and saying they would harm manufacturing in the country.
“These planned job cuts will not only undermine Britain’s sovereign defense capability, but devastate communities across the U.K. who rely on these skilled jobs and the hope of a decent future they give to future generations,” Steve Turner, Unite’s assistant general secretary, said in a 
BAE said that it would eliminate up to 1,400 jobs in its military air and information business, reflecting a reduction in the production of its Typhoon and Hawk jets.
The company also plans to cut about 375 jobs in its maritime services unit and to lose 150 jobs in its applied intelligence operations.
The cutbacks were announced as Lockheed Martin and other rivals were facing pressure from governments to lower prices amid stiff competition for orders.