
LONDON — Whatever else it may have been, the Brexit vote was a working-class revolt. Britain’s two main political parties, Conservative and Labour, are still grappling with that fact. So far, it has created more problems than opportunities for both, but especially for Labour.
Though Britain’s left behind and beleaguered workers were not the only ones to vote to leave the European Union, they 
It was in the early 2000s that many British workers, 
After the 2001 general election, some moved 
At the core of this strongly pro-Brexit group are workers who have enough to get by, and so something to lose, but not enough to get ahead. They are sandwiched between the unemployed on welfare and their more affluent employers; they see themselves as aspirational, but their reality is to belong to the squeezed middle.
Ahead of the referendum, they felt that Brexit would reduce immigration and were not deterred by warnings of economic doom. In fact, 
The latest rebellion of the C2s was a long time coming, but they have often proved a key “swing” segment of the electorate in British politics. In earlier decades, the C2s 
The so-called Essex Man, an approximate equivalent of the Reagan Democrat, wanted to get ahead economically — purchasing shares in newly privatized utilities and buying his own home, a “council house” that had formerly belonged to the public housing stock. Such workers also shared Margaret Thatcher’s social conservatism on the virtues of owning property, immigration, Europe, patriotism and crime.
Mr. Blair grasped that lesson and urged the left to focus on winning not only the progressive middle classes and those at the bottom of society, but also — in another coinage of the era, named for a popular model of Ford car — the “
There is no British exceptionalism about any of this. Skilled and semiskilled workers have been at the fore of almost all national-populist revolts in recent history. Though many of Mr. Trump’s voters are fairly well off, the white working class broke for the Republican ticket over Hillary Clinton’s Democrats by a 
A crucial element in the political movements that have capitalized on this group of voters is that they have succeeded in addressing an underlying desire not just for economic protection, but for 
Britain’s Labour Party is acutely aware of the challenge. In the general election in June, Labour did unexpectedly well with an eclectic coalition of the professional and managerial classes, students and those with the very lowest incomes. But the party’s message of economic redistribution 
If Labour is ever to return to power, it must capture another 64 seats in Parliament; that 
How can they be won back?
As Britain approaches Brexit, some cling to the hope that the Brexit-backing workers will ultimately change their minds as inflation edges up and the economic growth stalls. So far, there is little evidence of this — on the contrary, these voters seem resistant to any cost-benefit analysis, much as they were ahead of the referendum. When one pollster 
There is one way forward, but it comes at a cost and will anger progressives. Labour’s resurgent leader, Jeremy Corbyn, hopes to lure workers back by 
For those Labour Remainers, this means reconciling with Brexit and giving up on the liberal internationalist aims of a united Europe and open borders. That is the price for remaining electorally relevant and trying to reverse the trend of Labour’s loss of three elections in a row and its failure to win a parliamentary majority in 12 years. In the long run, it will enable Labour to be a player in the battle over Britain’s future, instead of merely a spectator.
The alternative is for Labour to turn up the volume of its attacks on Brexit. But preaching to liberals in London and the university towns will only further alienate the “Mondeo Man” voters who have developed a penchant for switching their votes. It would also mean that Labour had absolutely no chance of winning a majority and returning to power.
Over to you, Labour.