
A CNN host called President Trump a “
A Breitbart News writer 
In the 24 hours after the deadly van and knife attack, the cycle of partisan broadsides and ideological combat that seems to dominate the media universe these days kicked into high gear.
News organizations turned against each other, with anchors on Fox News calling on CNN to punish its host Reza Aslan for his profane remarks about Mr. Trump in a Twitter post.
The president’s retweet of 
That led to accusations of liberal bias, with the “Fox & Friends” co-host Abby Huntsman asking, “Can we not just come together?”
It was the kind of chain reaction that is increasingly commonplace in a deeply polarized political environment, where news organizations attract tribal followings, and where major events like the London attack can stoke fears and inflame emotions — from Mr. Trump on down.
Mr. Aslan responded with his angry posts after the president, in the immediate wake of the attack on Saturday, 
That prompted expressions of outrage from right-wing news outlets 
“I should have used better language to express my shock and frustration at the president’s lack of decorum and sympathy,” Mr. Aslan 
The backlash against Mr. Trump’s tweets, however, went beyond Mr. Aslan. Critics pointed to 
There was also some disbelief in online comments that the president, who has access to up-to-the-minute national intelligence, chose to send a speculative item from The Drudge Report to his 31.5 million Twitter followers on an issue of international import. The Drudge Report, which is hugely popular with conservatives, counts Mr. Trump among its devotees: @Drudge_Report is just one of 45 Twitter accounts that he follows.
On “Fox & Friends,” a reliably Trump-friendly morning show, there was little concern over the president’s tweets, but some criticism of Mr. Aslan’s remark, which the hosts described as evidence of an explicit bias against Mr. Trump in some quarters of the news media.
It was not long until the “Fox & Friends” crew was coping with its own troubles.
One of the show’s guest commentators, Katie Hopkins of The Daily Mail, raised the prospect of rounding up Muslims on the terrror watch list in the United Kingdom and placing them in internment camps as a way of preventing future attacks. Another guest — Nigel Farage, the British political figure and “Brexit” advocate 
Later in the broadcast, the “Fox & Friends” anchors paused for a formal denunciation of the statements, lest viewers be left with the impression that Fox was endorsing the idea.
“On behalf of the network, I think all of us here find that idea reprehensible here at Fox News Channel, just to be clear,” a co-host, Clayton Morris, told viewers.
Ms. Huntsman added, “It’s important to be said.”