
The inauguration of Donald Trump today ushers in one of the most conservative cabinets in U.S. history. In Europe, you can see that swing to the hard right is reflected: and not just in obvious places, like Brexit and the center and far-right candidates currently stacked up for the French elections on April 23. It’s on the fall/winter 2017 men’s wear runways, too.
It’s tricky to make an explicit political statement in dress — unless it’s printed across a T-shirt or, perhaps, writ large across a scarlet-’n’-sloganed hat. (Incidentally, next season the snap-back cap is eerily ubiquitous — Valentino and Louis Vuitton topped nearly every look with their own versions.) Rather, this season, there has been a surfeit of traditional, tailored business suits.
Many assume that suits are what men’s wear shows consist of, season in and out — and, to be frank, there’s always a drab swathe of them, often shoring up the stalls at the Florentine trade fair Pitti Uomo. But this time around, they’ve made the great leap onto the runway, to become a major fixation of the season. They’re also being utilized by some of the most interesting and experimental designers — in the first 48 hours in Paris, they appeared on the runways of Dries Van Noten, Rick Owens and Demna Gvasalia’s sophomore men’s collection for Balenciaga. But each designer twisted the traditional formula — reformatting the suit both to their distinct creative visions and for the social climate today.
Given that Gvasalia appropriated the bicolored wave logo of Bernie Sanders’s presidential bid, it’s fair to say he’s cognizant of the political slant to his designs. He opened his show with seemingly straight-up suits, ties tightly knotted and coats cut sharply with jutting ’80s shoulders. There were even pinstripes which, upon closer inspection, bore the Balenciaga website URL woven through the cloth. Sounds boring? That was sort of the point. The main idea behind this show — and his suits — was corporate attire. “It’s a reality,” Gvasalia said, backstage after the show. “My work has always been about what’s going on around us. It’s just honest.”
Honest maybe, but not inured to the social and political situation of the world. This new breed of suits are interesting because they’re subversive — often in the runway look they complete, and sometimes in their own cut and finish. They’re being used by designers as a Trojan horse to slip a few new and seditious ideas into the season’s offering, without entirely alienating their audience. Balenciaga, for instance, showed mid-calf length tailored coats over thigh-high stockings, like a cross between Wall Street and “The Rocky Horror Picture Show.” It felt like an odd commentary on male sexuality, literally cloaked in conservatism. Dries Van Noten — a classicist, rather than an avant-garde experimentalist — also used his suits to propose a new silhouette, and hence a new male body ideal. Actually it wasn’t entirely new, but we haven’t seen it for a while: It was that signature ’80s inverted triangle, shoulders wide and square and trousers skinny. It was a butched-out masculinity.
The whole look is remiscent of “American Psycho:” Balenciaga even veiled a few power-suited looks in plastic raincoats, reminiscent of the one Patrick Bateman sported in his infamous axe-wielding scene. But on the other side of the coin, Rick Owens cut his single-breasted blazers narrow at the shoulder, and added dangling, skinny sleeves of knit jersey tugged over models’ hands to attenuate their limbs to ectoplasmic proportions. With wide-cut, low-crotched trousers pooling around the models’ feet, these suits were an experiment in silhouette. But the familiarity of the suit made them more palatable to the everyman. Unlike many of Owens’s crazier outings — like the bulbous, down-stuffed puffers that hunched shoulders in this show — the recognizable form of the suit allowed viewers to navigate their way through Owens’s extremes. You could even imagine wearing some of those blazers.
That’s the real power of suiting. It’s something we are used to, something which, as Gvasalia said, is around us every day. That means designers like Balenciaga and co. are able use it as a blank canvas for experimentation. And if, over the past few seasons, designers have focused on decorating their suits with embroideries and intricate brocades, this season they are pushing extremes of shape and silhouette. They’re not just disguising the conservative with flash and dazzle, but trying to transform it into something different, something alternative. Don’t think “alt-right” — the phrase that attempts to normalize today’s ungainly, uncouth Twitter-trolling beast of conservatism. Young designers are looking to an old-fashioned idea of conservative dress, but rather than blandly accepting it as it is, they’re trying to refashion it to make it a testament to modern times and social mores, expressive of the ideals of contemporary society, rather than stuck in the staid conventions of the past.
A new conservatism. That’s what these suits are spelling out. Wouldn’t it be nice if the GOP thought about things the same way?