
LONDON — For decades, voters in Copeland, in the northwest of England, have elected parliamentary candidates from Britain’s opposition Labour Party so regularly that their support was almost taken for granted.
That came to an abrupt end early on Friday, when a candidate from the Conservative Party of Prime Minister Theresa May took the seat in a by-election, prompting new speculation about the leadership of a Labour Party that is trailing in the polls and has been split by voters’ decision in a referendum last year to leave the European Union.
On a morning of mixed fortunes for Labour, there was a more encouraging result in a second contest, in Stoke-on-Trent Central, where it emerged victorious over the right-wing populist U.K. Independence Party, known as UKIP. In the process, it comfortably defeated the party’s new leader, Paul Nuttall, who had gambled by running there personally.
The loss was a big reversal for Mr. Nuttall, who is trying to establish a new identity for UKIP after the party achieved its objective last year by persuading Britons to vote to quit the European Union. It has sought to appeal to voters in working-class communities who normally vote Labour.
Mr. Nuttall’s failure to do so in Stoke, after a mistake-prone campaign, was a huge relief for Labour, but the loss of Copeland underscores the problems facing a party that is struggling to present itself as a credible alternative government in waiting.
In a general election in 2015, voters deserted Labour en masse in Scotland, once a Labour stronghold. In last year’s referendum, many of its traditional supporters rejected Labour’s advice to remain in the European Union.
Labour’s left-wing leader, Jeremy Corbyn, has also been at war with many of his own lawmakers, some of whom tried unsuccessfully to force him out last year.
On Friday, John Woodcock, a Labour lawmaker, told the BBC that the Copeland result was a “disaster,” and there was new speculation about Mr. Corbyn’s future.
But Mr. Corbyn, asked if he would step down, replied, “No. I was elected leader of this party. I’m proud to lead this party.”
With no obvious successor in sight, Mr. Corbyn is likely to survive for now. But Copeland had been a Labour monopoly since the creation of the parliamentary constituency in 1983, and the Conservatives had not represented the region for around 80 years. Moreover, governing parties rarely win by-elections over opposition parties; before Copeland, the last time this happened was in 1982. The Conservative candidate in Copeland, Trudy Harrison, described her win as a “truly historic event.”
Mr. Corbyn’s history of skepticism about nuclear power may have hampered his party in a region where the industry is economically crucial. The Sellafield nuclear facility is a major employer, and there are hopes of a new nuclear site at Moorside.
But the result has increased anxiety within the Labour Party about whether it can rely on traditional supporters in the north of England to support Labour as they once did. “Labour is too weak to win power but too strong to die,” wrote Andrew Grice, a political commentator for The Independent, a daily.
By-elections take place when a parliamentary seat is vacated, typically because a lawmaker dies or leaves the House of Commons — as occurred in Copeland and Stoke-on-Trent Central. Voting in both areas took place on Thursday, with the results announced early Friday morning.
In Copeland, Ms. Harrison won with 13,748 votes to 11,601 for Gillian Troughton of Labour.
In Stoke-on-Trent Central, Gareth Snell was elected for Labour with 7,853 votes, compared with 5,233 votes for Mr. Nuttall of UKIP. Mr. Snell described his win as a victory for the “politics of hope over the politics of fear.”
For UKIP, the failure even to finish a close second in Stoke-on-Trent Central was a big setback, because it was just the sort of seat where the party had hoped to make a breakthrough.
With just one lawmaker in Parliament, UKIP faces an uphill battle to persuade voters that it remains relevant, particularly now that Mrs. May has embraced its two best-known policies: withdrawal from the European Union and curbs on immigration.
Mr. Nuttall’s leadership is being questioned, too, though early Friday he insisted that he is “not going anywhere” and that UKIP’s “time will come.”
Nicknamed Britain’s Brexit capital because about 70 percent of voters there wanted to leave the European Union, the area was once an industrial center, but has long since lost many of the factories that fueled its economy.
Yet from the start, Mr. Nuttall’s campaign looked accident prone. He faced criticism after listing his address on his by-election nomination papers as a newly rented house in the constituency, making him appear more local than he is.
Then he was forced to apologize for incorrect claims on his website that he lost close friends in the Hillsborough disaster in 1989, when 96 people were crushed to death at a soccer stadium.