
Americans, “The Great British Baking Show” as you have known it is coming to an end.
The season finale was broadcast in some markets last week on PBS, which has aired only the four most recent of its seven seasons. The broadcaster said it would air one of the three earliest seasons of the show — which is called “The Great British Baking Show” in the United States and “The Great British Bake Off” everywhere else — but after that, things will be different.
For one, PBS, which also licenses “The Great British Baking Show” to Netflix, said it had not yet decided whether to air future seasons in the United States. What is going on?
“The Great British Bake Off” 
Last September, the show’s producer, Love Productions, 
Three of its hosts — the celebrity chef Mary Berry and the comedians Sue Perkins and Mel Giedroyc — quickly quit in a messy public airing of grievances over the financially motivated change. They have been replaced.
So what comes next for the show and its beloved ex-hosts? And will Americans be able to watch any of it?
Paul Hollywood, the one host who did not quit, will be part of what amounts to a reboot with three new co-hosts: the chef and writer Prue Leith and the comedians Sandi Toksvig and Noel Fielding. The season premiere is “coming soon,” the show said on Twitter.
It also tweeted an apparent nod to the turmoil that has shadowed “The Great British Bake Off” since last year: a video in which anthropomorphized baked goods sing “we all stand together,” even as they are thrust into an oven. Love Productions declined to comment.
So, who are the newcomers?
Ms. Leith is a chef and television personality who founded cooking schools in both 
Ms. Toksvig is a veteran TV presenter best known in Britain as the witty, bantering host of the quiz show “QI.” She is also a political activist: In 2015, she helped found 
Mr. Fielding is a comedian best known as part of the comedy troupe, and surreal BBC sitcom, “
His brand of humor may be an odd fit for “Bake Off.” Last week, he faced a backlash in Britain after 
Ms. Perkins and Ms. Giedroyc were 
The pair was the show’s comic relief, sprinkling witty banter and double entendres throughout each episode, and their lack of baking expertise let them act as stand-ins for home viewers who may not know a 
Both are wildly popular in Britain. Ms. Perkins is outspoken 
Last month, the 
Mary Berry, a celebrity chef and fan favorite who has been cooking on British television for decades, has been busy since she quit “Bake Off” last year.
The BBC has been happy to continue working with her. In the last year, she has hosted two BBC shows, “Mary Berry’s Secrets From Britain’s Great Houses” and “Mary Berry Everyday.” And earlier this month, the broadcaster announced a third show to be hosted by her: “Britain’s Best Cook.”
The BBC said the new show would look for the best of “modern British home cooking,” like roast beef, chicken curry or chocolate pudding. PBS said it had not made a decision about broadcasting Ms. Berry’s new projects.