
Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said today that 
Russia has denounced the U.S. missile strikes on a Syrian air base last week, a feud that frees Washington and Moscow from 
In the days since the attack, the Trump administration has spoken with multiple voices to explain its evolving policy. One voice has not been heard: 
A federal judge ruled on Monday that the state’s voter identification measure, one of the nation’s toughest, 
The ruling raises the possibility that election procedures in Texas could be put back under federal oversight.
Facing impeachment hearings, 
He had previously acknowledged making sexually charged remarks to a top aide.
Suicide bombings at two churches on Sunday suggest that 
Two adults and one student were killed, 
Today’s show examines how a mild-mannered ophthalmologist became the ruler of Syria.
Listen on 
In today’s 
Our reporter visited the city she called home for 15 years and found that, after the “Brexit” referendum, 
The Times collected 
The New York Daily News and ProPublica shared the prize for public service.
Why it’s O.K. that President Trump has no “doctrine,” and the case for liberals to defend the Second Amendment. We scoured the internet for 
On Monday’s “Jimmy Kimmel Live,” 
We also look at how Stephen Colbert 
“Houston, we’ve had a problem.”
The crew of Apollo 13, launched from Kennedy Space Center in Florida on this day in 1970, was 200,000 miles above Earth when one of the craft’s oxygen tanks exploded.
The blast either ruptured a line or caused a valve on the other tank to leak. Then the warning lights for the fuel cells began flashing, indicating that the electricity supply was in jeopardy.
The mission was supposed to be NASA’s third crewed moon landing. The “problem” came two days in, crippling the command module’s supply of electricity, light and water.
The three-person crew was able to make 
Although the mission was aborted and the crew never landed on the moon, their heroics — and their rescue — resulted in the mission being classified as a “
The flight remains the record for the farthest humans have ever traveled from Earth, and the response to the near disaster was deemed “