
The European Union and Japan have signaled that they plan to announce a broad agreement on trade on Thursday, a pointed challenge to President Trump, who is scheduled to attend a meeting of world leaders in Germany the next day.
The timing of the announcement — on the eve of the Group of 20 summit meeting in Hamburg, Germany — was a clear reaction to the United States’ protectionist stance the last time the G-20 met. 
By forging ahead with their own accord before the meeting with Mr. Trump and other heads of state, Europe and Japan threatened to isolate the United States in important industries like automobiles.
“Ambitious free and fair trade deal in the making,” Donald Tusk, the president of the European Union, 
The European Union 
Among other things, the pact would eliminate a 10 percent duty that the E.U. imposes on Japanese car imports, while removing obstacles that European automakers face in Japan. That would be particularly significant for luxury carmakers like BMW, Mercedes and Toyota’s Lexus brand, said Ferdinand Dudenhöffer, a professor at the University of Duisburg-Essen in Germany who focuses on the auto industry.
Those vehicles suffer the most from high import duties. “It could be a chance for the high-value, premium vehicles,” Mr. Dudenhöffer said. American brands like Cadillac or Lincoln “won’t have the same advantage and will be in a worse position,” he said.
The trade deal has been under negotiation for years, but talks were effectively delayed while Japan focused on a separate deal with the United States and other Pacific Rim countries, the 
But Mr. Trump dealt that agreement a possibly fatal blow shortly after taking office this year, when he 
The pact to be announced on Thursday offers both Japan and the European Union an attractive alternative.
The Group of 20 summit meeting took place in the German city of Hamburg. What is the G-20, and what happens when its members meet? See how much you know.
For the European Union, “the political imperative around this agreement is intense,” said Hosuk Lee-Makiyama, the director of the European Centre for International Political Economy, a research organization in Brussels. With 
“With Brexit, a huge chunk of European trade is under uncertainty,” Mr. Lee-Makiyama said. “The commission is struggling for a win,” he added, referring to the European Commission, the executive arm of the bloc.
For Shinzo Abe, the Japanese prime minister, the deal also looks like a much-needed win.
Accusations of 
Though key issues must still be ironed out, the two sides have reached agreement on several contentious issues, including cars and cheese.
European negotiators had insisted that Japan lower import duties on a range of agricultural goods, in particular dairy products, an area that Tokyo has staunchly protected.
In return, the Europeans offered to lower duties on vehicles from Japan, a change that could benefit Toyota and Honda, which have claimed a smaller market share than in other markets, including the United States.
Together, Europe and Japan would create a trading bloc of a size to rival the 
Still, history shows that political opposition can derail trade pacts even after the parties reach a broad agreement. The Obama administration was unable to conclude a trade deal with the European Union, even though both sides wanted one. The talks stalled largely because of opposition from the food industry and environmental activists.
The proposed deal between Europe and Japan could founder for the same reasons. Environmental groups have expressed worry that drafts of the pact fall short on several issues, including curbing the illegal timber trade and tackling overfishing.
European automakers said on Tuesday that they wanted assurances that the pact would truly give them access to Japan, which is notorious for tax policies and other measures that effectively exclude foreign manufacturers.
“Japan should resolve the remaining nontariff measures facing E.U. vehicle exports,” Erik Jonnaert, secretary general of the European Automobile Manufacturers Association, said in a statement.