
When Sadiq Khan, the Labour mayor of London, stands in front of the annual gathering of his party’s activists next week, he can be confident that his speech will have at least one applause line: He is the politician who took on Uber.
On Friday morning, Transport for London, the not-for-profit company that runs and regulates transport in the capital, made the surprise announcement that Uber, the company that likes to call itself a “ridesharing app,” would not have its license to operate in London 
Mr. Khan immediately released a statement supporting the decision, saying that all London businesses needed to “
Last year, when the Labour leader claimed he had to sit on the floor of a “ram-packed” train, and used the opportunity to call for the renationalization of Britain’s railways, it led to 
Mr. Khan, meanwhile, will find this infusion of political capital particularly useful; he backed an unsuccessful challenge to Mr. Corbyn’s leadership last summer. Until earlier this week, he had not been given a slot to speak to the party’s 
Even so, this move is not without risk for the London mayor. Around 
Of course, this skirmish could still end peacefully rather than leading to all-out war. Uber is allowed to operate in London until its appeal is heard, so, in some ways, the announcement feels like a muscular negotiating tactic from the regulator, aimed at bringing the ride-hailing company to heel.
The Transport for London statement said that Uber was not a “
And there are bigger undercurrents to the confrontation. The number of traditional cabs — whose drivers learn “
Earlier this year, Transport for London 
Many middle-class Londoners — the kind who buy organic food and voted to stay in the European Union — feel conflicted about the cabs vs. Uber war. They complain that the traditional cabs are uncomfortable, expensive and belch diesel fumes into a city with air quality problems. Cabbies also have a reputation for being grumpy and unhelpful — something that Uber drivers, who are given a star rating by every customer, cannot afford to be.
But those same Londoners are also quietly impressed by the way Transport for London runs the capital’s transport network — you can tell, because they don’t constantly grumble about it. (Actually 
How the London vs. Uber saga plays out will be an important test of Britain’s mood — and will give clues to its future political direction. There is a feeling in the air that regulators should stand up to businesses that simply ignore any rules they don’t like. Even among Conservatives, free market fundamentalism is out of fashion. Britons are no longer so in love with “disruption” that we are prepared to overlook the consequences to job security and quality of life it can entail. Perhaps voters have decided that the slogan that galvanized the Brexit vote — “