
LONDON — Twenty-one years after the movie “
The sequel checks in with the unmoored but largely lovable characters from the first movie as they face middle age. Ewan McGregor is back as the lead character, Renton, perhaps best remembered for his visit in the first film to the “Worst Toilet in Scotland.” Robert Carlyle appears as Begbie, who starts brawls with almost anyone who crosses his path; Ewen Bremner returns as the dimwitted Spud, who, in the first movie, has a memorable job interview while high on speed; and Jonny Lee Miller is back as Sick Boy, now known as Simon.
Here’s a roundup of the early reviews.
Let’s start with the Scottish papers. The Glasgow-based 
If Danny Boyle’s original “Trainspotting” is rightly regarded as one of the seminal British films of the ’90s, which continues to hold up well today, then it’s high praise indeed to say that this belated follow-up is every bit as good — maybe even better.
“T2” doesn’t just recapture the relentlessly addictive energy of the first film, complete with profane language, outrageous sex and drug scenes and horrific bouts of violence, it displays a greater maturity too; one that lends it unexpected poignancy to match its more bravura moments.
The 
Boyle’s frenetic, collagelike directing style, particularly as he reintroduces us to the characters amid a torrent of cocaine, vomit and violence also gives the film a trying-too-hard feel and even though some of it does jolt “T2” to life, the cast doesn’t always have the emotional range to make it cohere.
Elsewhere in Britain, in The Times of London, Kate Muir praised the sequel’s enduring addled energy and said there was something brooding in the latest installment:
Yes, Ewan McGregor is back as Renton, racing through the streets of Edinburgh, roaring a new anthem of despair. Except 20 years later, he’s middle-aged. And on a tram. The manic energy of the original 1996 film has sporadic outbreaks in “T2 Trainspotting,” but director Danny Boyle is in a more melancholy mood and the story is freighted with self-referential nostalgia and flashbacks to the early days.
The 
In that film, I often hid my head in my hands, unable to watch scenes about dead babies and diving into gruesome lavatories. Now it’s the sight of desolate men’s faces that made me want to look away: stunned by the realization that their lives are coming to an end.
The 
What’s so impressive about T2 is how skilfully it manages to stay true to the spirit of the original while acknowledging just how much has changed in the intervening years. Boyle’s achievement is to have made a wildly invigorating and enjoyable film about subject matter which is often so dark.
A 
“T2 Trainspotting,” to use its perplexing title, is slower and creakier than “Trainspotting.” It’s not as good-looking, it’s more conventional, and it’s prone to getting maudlin about times gone by. Depending on how forgiving you are — and how old you are — you’ll either be impressed that it has incorporated the theme of aging into its milder tone and gentler pacing, or you’ll be disappointed that it isn’t the white-knuckle roller coaster ride that “Trainspotting” was.
Some American publications have weighed in as well. The 
Women are very much on the sidelines, even more so than in “Trainspotting”: The terrific Shirley Henderson has insultingly little to do as Spud’s long-suffering girlfriend Gail, while “Boardwalk Empire’s” Kelly Macdonald — whose sparklingly auspicious acting debut back in 1996 was as Renton’s wise-beyond-her-years schoolgirl girlfriend Diane — pops up for a one-scene, two-minute cameo (which nevertheless somehow nabs her fifth billing).
Writing for The Wrap, Jason Solomons said that the movie “
While the first film somehow captured, defined and shaped the mid-’90s zeitgeist of Brit-pop and dance culture, of New Labour and a new wave of British cinema, you can’t help feel that “T2 Trainspotting” misses any such opportunity, particularly as it was shooting during the Brexit vote.