
“Everyone’s so frustrated — aren’t you frustrated?” erupts the artist Marilyn Minter during a conversation about her latest venture, a resistance-themed pop-up shop set inside of the Brooklyn Museum, named Anger Management. “We’re living under an administration that if you don’t protest, you’re unconscious,” she says. Months after bonding aboard one of Planned Parenthood’s pink buses en route to the D.C. Women’s March, Minter and the art historian Andrianna Campbell are offering an outlet to more than 70 artists with their store. 
Among the items for sale, most priced from $5 to $30: T-shirts silk-screened with the Barbara Kruger adage “Admit nothing/Blame everyone/Be bitter”; polar bear-printed wallpaper by Rob Pruitt (which also lines the Anger Management shop); thong underwear made by Laurie Simmons; vinyl stickers from Zoe Beckman that read “Grab ’em by the ballots”; and temporary tattoos based on Minter’s Resist Flag that billowed over Midtown in the spring (albeit for less than a day before its removal). 
Minter and Campbell enlisted the vendors themselves and explained to them the few guidelines. “Because the Brooklyn Museum is a nonpartisan space and these objects were being made for sale in the shop, there are certain terms the artists could not use and certain names we could not mention,” says Campbell. “But more importantly, this allowed for a breadth of creativity from the artists and allowed us to address the state of our democracy, freedom of speech, climate change, the immigration ban — big-tent issues.”
Campbell adds that circulating images, like those created by the Anger Management vendors, contributes to a feeling of solidarity: “To see these symbols out in the world will sustain people’s hopes.” Minter is used to seasons of change. “In the ’60s, it really was men running the show — even in terms of protest — and I was big into civil rights, so I was along for the ride,” she says. “Today, I’m generating the ride. I’m becoming an engine.”
The German art dealer Johann König often finds himself thinking about what constitutes a gallery. His König Galerie in Berlin occupies part of a recently restored Brutalist church complex called St. Agnes, which also houses a restaurant, 032c magazine, New York University’s local office, an architecture firm, a publishing company and private apartments. 
And it was there, not at a vernissage, but at a pro-European Union panel discussion held earlier in the year, that König and his team introduced the EUnify​ hoodie — a blue sweatshirt that displays a broken ring of gold stars, based on the design of the EU flag. It’s not their first piece of merchandise: They’ve also released a beach towel that features a painting by the Berghain​-approved artist Norbert​ ​Bisky, meant to celebrate LGBTQ culture. “We are a commercial enterprise selling high-priced art, but we have a huge audience that isn’t in a position to buy work that costs 100,000 euros,” König says. “And I don’t believe in ‘editions’ — like, numbered prints of 500; we want to create products with low price points.”
This month, EUnify hoodies and beach towels (along with books and a sundry of collectibles) 
Miranda July began to shape her idea for an interfaith thrift store
At the tail end of August, the temporary shop, created in conjunction with art organization Artangel and run jointly by four religious charities — Islamic Relief, the Jewish charity Norwood, London Buddhist Centre and Spitalfields Crypt Trust — officially popped up. It soon adopted a community-center feel; people “stay for a long time and talk to each other and they come back,” July says. The location certainly helps: It’s situated on the third floor of Selfridges department store. 
Sharing the same air as racks of Yeezy and Vetements are secondhand clothes, a selection of books and movies by women, toys, kitchenware and other miscellany that July solicited from the four charities’ own shops. (The money made will be divided among them.) “Two of my favorite items include a life-size robotic dog and a peanut-butter colored bra and shorts held together by mesh,” July says. 
She will be speaking at the pop-up as part of Frieze on Oct. 5 — a reminder that, according to July at least, the shop is an art project. “Like many installations, this highly crafted space is a slightly utopian, alternate world sprung from the mind of one person,” she explains, “but because it’s a ‘real’ shop, many people participate comfortably, are even emotionally stirred by the piece, without thinking of it as art. That’s O.K. by me. It’s still as ‘created’ as a painting — and I used all my resources as an artist to make it real.”