
MILAN — It happens only in science fiction and in politics. A young man ages three decades in three years. He loses his sparkle, he talks a lot about the past, he keeps repeating the same jokes. He puts on weight. He writes a book too many.
It has happened to Matteo Renzi, now 42, prime minister from 2014 to 2016, the youngest in Italy’s republican history. This is a pity and a lost opportunity for Italy, which is approaching a general election next year, and for Europe as a whole. With Donald Trump to the west, Vladimir Putin to the east, Recep Tayyip Erdogan to the south, Brexit to the north, and Hungary’s Viktor Orban and Poland’s Jaroslaw Kaczynski in the middle, young democratic leaders are at a premium.
Mr. Renzi was Italy’s Emmanuel Macron — a few years in advance. He appeared out of nowhere in 2009. It was a classy nowhere, though. He was the young mayor of Florence, a rising star of the center-left Democratic Party. Against his friends’ advice, and against all odds, he ran for the leadership of the party in 2013, and won. After two months he dispatched the sitting prime minister (Enrico Letta, same party) after posting a tweet: #staisereno — translation: #justrelax. Not a champion of loyalty, maybe. But Mr. Renzi was on a roll, and most Italians let that pass.
He was Italy’s prime minister for about 1,000 days, starting Feb. 22, 2014. He was witty, charming, well-informed, alert — a family man with no conflict of interest and no judicial hangover, so different from the tycoon and womanizer Silvio Berlusconi (nearly four decades his senior). He promised too much, maybe (a major reform every month!). But he introduced some good legislation (on the labor market, for instance). When he spoke, he was short and to the point, and you understood him (for an Italian politician, it was close to a miracle). His fellow European leaders were duly impressed. So was Barack Obama. Italy may be changing for real, would you believe it?
Then something happened. Mr. Renzi became impatient — and running Italy, like mountain climbing and marathon running, requires a lot of patience. He picked one fight after another — with the envious old guard in his own party, with the erratic opposition of Beppe Grillo and his Five Star Movement, with the European Union. A badly needed electoral law, a reform of the punitive tax system, a public television network free from political interference: None of it happened.
Immigration from Africa picked up pace. Blaming the European Union for not helping was a fair judgment, but it was not enough. In the middle of this, Mr. Renzi promoted an ambitious constitutional reform program, largely aimed at streamlining the Italian government to make way for an economic overhaul. That took most of his energy and consolidated the opposition. Last December, his reform plan was soundly rejected in a referendum. Young voters deserted him in droves. Mr. Renzi resigned immediately. “I didn’t think they hated me so much,” he said tearfully.
He had promised that if he lost, he would leave politics. But he didn’t. After a few weeks, he was back.
At first sight, here was the same boisterous, self-confident Mr. Renzi. In fact, he was a different person, and voters picked up on that immediately.
As soon as he was re-elected secretary of the Democratic Party (against little opposition), he pushed for a new general election. Obviously, his wounds were still open. Why did he publish a book titled “Avanti!” (“Ahead!”), which mostly looks back in anger? It’s a mystery. Why did he embark on a long book tour with his party in disarray and an election coming up?
Mr. Renzi remained impressive onstage. But much else was different. The sci-fi aging. He looks older, heavier, tired now. He seems eager to settle old scores. When he answers questions about Italy’s future, he’s too eager. When he wants to be simpatico, he tries too hard. He used to listen; now he prefers to talk. He was once known for his empathy; now he’s too emphatic. He was witty, like most in Tuscany; he became sarcastic, as have too many in Italy.
A frequent criticism is that he has no one to advise him. Like Donald Trump, he trusts only his gut, and he likes to fire off tweets. But there is a difference. Donald Trump is America’s nostalgic past, revisited. Matteo Renzi is Italy’s future, tarnished.
The alternative is bleak. Mr. Grillo’s Five Star Movement has proved effective in opposition, cynically praising Mr. Putin and Mr. Trump while criticizing Europe, vaccines and global trade. But when it was given the chance to actually run the city of Rome, the result was a disaster. Mr. Berlusconi, three times prime minister between 1994 and 2011, couldn’t believe his luck when he realized that his mummified party, Forza Italia, is now back in fashion. Joining forces with the populist Northern League, Forza did well in June’s big round of local elections, which involved nine million voters. The next general election, most likely in March, will be fought under a patched-up electoral law based on proportional representation. None of the three major groups looks likely to form a government.
Mr. Renzi is still Italy’s best hope. The old Matteo, though. The new Matteo is so old.