
Marine Le Pen, the far-right candidate, said she offered change from a status quo embodied by Emmanuel Macron, the centrist contender. Mr. Macron railed against Ms. Le Pen’s “authoritarian, anti-European, nationalist project.”
Here’s 
_____
But Ms. Le Pen’s sneering mockery of her rival in the final presidential debate on Wednesday could 
In St. Pierre, a foggy French outpost off the Canadian coast, 
_____
They have opened a new front, aiming to force the Islamic State to fight in multiple directions and cause its defenses to collapse. Hundreds of thousands of civilians remain trapped.
The U.N.’s top envoy on Syria praised the Russian plan to create four “de-escalation zones” in Syria. But 
_____
transcript
The House on Thursday passed a new version of a healthcare bill after the first one in March failed to get enough Republican support. This time, the debate hinged on Americans with pre-existing conditions. Here’s a look at how the whole dynamic played out over the last few days: Republican leaders scrambled to scrape up support from two house republican factions: the conservative Freedom Caucus, and the more moderate Tuesday Group. Two new amendments were tacked on, making it palatable to both. The first amendment includes a waiver for states to opt out of covering patients with pre-existing conditions, a win for the Freedom Caucus. Democrats were quick to jump on this. Pelosi: This is deadly. Trumpcare means heart-stopping premium increases from anything from asthma to cancer and the list goes on along the alphabet and no Band-aid amendment will fix it. And then it was the moderates’ turn to balk. They made it clear they wouldn’t vote for it. Fred Upton (radio intv on Tuesday): I’ve supported the practice of not allowing pre-existing illnesses to be discriminated against from the very get-go. This amendment torpedoes that. It’s not going to get my Yes vote the way that it is. (assuming we’ll ID him and party affiliation w/ L3) Billy Long: I was always for the underlying bill. When they made what I consider the change to pre-existing conditions, that’s when I said I’m a no. But by Wednesday, they had a solution. Mr. Upton, an influential house veteran, convinced Trump and other leaders to add another amendment — $8 billion of funding to help cover insurance costs for people with pre-existing conditions. The last-minute amendment got moderate republicans to back the bill, seemingly satisfying both factions of the republican house. The bill passed in the House 217 to 213, and now moves to the Senate for a vote. Senators will likely heavily revise it, removing and changing certain provisions and amendments to create their own palatable version and then send it back to the House .. and the process there will likely repeat itself. So for now, Obamacare will still remain the law of the land.
The president will also fly to Brussels for a NATO summit meeting, and to Italy for a gathering of G-7 leaders and a meeting with Pope Francis.
In other news from Washington, House Republicans celebrated a major victory as they narrowly passed a bill 
_____
Speculation included one erroneously published (and unfinished) obituary.
The prince is perhaps best known for his gaffes. We 
_____
But don’t make the mistake of ordering tapas. “It’s a surefire sign that you’re a tourist because Granadians would never to think to pay for them,” one local guide said.
When President Trump and his team unveiled their tax reform plan late last month, they 
Arthur Laffer, above, the economist who devised the system, 
Many big ideas had similar starts. The design for the 
Roger Ebert, the movie critic, gets special mention. He used 