
HAMBURG, Germany — The best anyone can say about German-American relations these days is that, for the time being, they are dangerously lost in translation. Last week Donald J. Trump gave an interview to the German tabloid Bild, and people here are still trying to figure out what he meant. We are used to American leaders speaking plainly, and intentionally, to international audiences; Mr. Trump was speaking, well, Trumpish.
Take, for example, his reply when asked if there was anything typically German about him: “I like order.” So do we. But his other comments were anything but well ordered. He said he had “great respect” for Chancellor Angela Merkel, and he regarded her refugee policy as a “catastrophic mistake.” He thinks NATO is both “obsolete” and “very important.” He claimed to be a friend of free trade who wants to impose a tax of 35 percent on German cars imported into the United States.
The only thing he was halfway orderly about was the European Union: Mr. Trump called Brexit a “great thing” and somewhat cheerfully predicted that other countries might leave the union, too.
When Ms. Merkel heard this, she shrugged. Europe’s fate is “in our own hands,” she said. She made clear that she would wait to meet Mr. Trump as president before drawing any conclusions about where America was headed. Keep calm and argue on: This just might be the right approach with a president whose powers are inversely proportional to his knowledge of the world.
But if Ms. Merkel is confident, many of us are still unsure how to deal with Mr. Trump. On one hand, he might offer a corrective to the operational blindness of European elites when it comes to globalization — or “cosmopolitan overstretch,” as the Dutch sociologist Ruud Koopmans calls it. Inasmuch as Mr. Trump’s coarseness has a refreshing effect on public debates in America, that can already be felt in debates here, too. The classic Shakespearean fools were early Trumpish-speakers, summing up the absurdities of the main actors for the groundlings.
Maybe. But on the other hand, Mr. Trump’s witlessness will cause major damage if he doesn’t learn his lead role quickly. Just as the new president doesn’t know how many member states NATO has, he obviously has little clue about the anxiety his loose talk generates in Central and Eastern Europe. He uses the same words when talking to European journalists as he does speaking at Ohio campaign rallies: an admirable quality to some; a sign of deep ignorance to others.
That the same words can mean different things to different people — especially in different countries, with different cultures — is part of Diplomacy 101, and something people expect from even novice politicians.
While “obsolete,” for instance, can mean as little as “outdated” in America, in Germany it means “outright superfluous,” or “no longer necessary.” Did Mr. Trump really want to say this about NATO? If he has a problem with the unfair burden sharing within the alliance and its performance against the Islamic State, that’s something we can talk about. But if he doesn’t fully understand the value of the free West that NATO safeguards, and if he considers granting President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia an authoritarian sphere of influence, that’s something requiring a completely different response.
Of course, we also hear from his supporters that Mr. Trump doesn’t always mean what he says, that his very specific utterances about NATO or Russia are to be taken with an enormous grain of salt. But deliberately calling into question the postwar order is a step not to be taken lightly. If we have misread Trumpish here, the new president should be so kind as to set us straight.
Perhaps even more worrisome to us, in the short term, are his comments on trade. Does Mr. Trump really want a trade war with Germany? His threat to impose punitive tariffs on car imports if manufacturers, like Germany’s BMW, build plants in Mexico rather than in the United States has raised alarm among German businesses.
Sure, it’s true that Germany enjoys an enormous trade surplus with the United States, especially in the auto industry. While Germany sent cars and car parts worth $45 billion last year to the United States, American companies exported just $15 billion of the same kind of products to Germany. But Germany is a stickler for trade rules; this is not an instance of someone trying to cheat the system — which is why previous presidents have largely left us out of the trade debate.
Rather than tariffs, the easiest way for the Americans to change the trade imbalance would be, in the words of our Vice Chancellor Sigmar Gabriel, “to build better cars.” That is not a remote option at all: American-built Teslas have become the best-selling e-cars in Germany, 
If Mr. Trump wants to hinder emerging export giants like Tesla, he should impose his tariffs, and the German government will respond in kind. Such a move by Mr. Trump would be all the more counterproductive since BMW, Daimler and Volkswagen already invest heavily in American manufacturing; hurt or scare off those companies, and you hurt American workers too.
Is this something we should really be worried about? Will Mr. Trump’s advisers rein him in? Will the office tame him? Does he even mean, or know, what he’s saying?
In the end, the German who must figure that out is Ms. Merkel. She is in an unenviable position. Just when she thought she had contained one narcissistic leader whose ambitions exceeded his wisdom, to her east, she faces another in the west. Russian she speaks. Trumpish she still needs to learn.