
President Trump’s promise to 
Democrats have pledged not to cooperate on a new plan unless they know how it might benefit the president and his family, and a growing number of Republicans are also calling for him to share his tax forms.
On the brighter side, Mr. Trump presided over 
Prime Minister Theresa May said today that 
The election would occur on June 8.
Mrs. May took power in July; her predecessor, David Cameron, resigned after the “Brexit” referendum.
Supporters of President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey 
In a phone call on Monday, 
The vote makes it less likely that 
A man who posted a video to Facebook that showed him shooting dead a random passer-by in Cleveland is being sought by the authorities.
The social media network, which is grappling with its role in policing content, 
For the first time in more than a year, 
Justice Neil Gorsuch, his confirmation fight behind him, had many questions.
The state was forced 
The first round of the French presidential election is on Sunday, and critics are worried that 
On today’s show, our Supreme Court correspondent discusses Justice Neil Gorsuch’s first day on the job.
Listen on 
In today’s 360 video, 
At the time of the musician’s death after an opioid overdose last year, his home contained “a sizable amount” of painkillers for which he didn’t have prescriptions, 
In 1967, a runner registered as K. V. Switzer ran the all-male race, becoming the first woman to complete it as an official entrant. On Monday, 
A new book of 
And “Shattered,” an account of the 2016 election, 
“Groundhog Day” adapts a beloved movie to the musical stage with feverish imagination — and a magnetic Andy Karl shooing away the shadow of Bill Murray, 
On his former show, Stephen Colbert portrayed a right-wing talk show host. On Monday’s “Late Show,” he 
When the U.S. recently 
Carl Vinson was 
In 1862, Congress specified that ships, depending on their class, should be named after states, rivers or “principal cities and towns.” But naval expansion soon exhausted geographical names.
Some names have been divisive. The Clinton administration took heat for naming a destroyer after a British citizen, Winston Churchill, and traditionalists objected 
And sometimes the name just doesn’t fit. A cargo ship was named after the civil rights activist Cesar Chavez. A proponent of nonviolence, he once said his time 