
LONDON — The opposition Labour Party called on Sunday for an indefinite “transition period” of de facto membership in the European Union even after the formal deadline for an exit in early 2019, clarifying for the first time the party’s advocacy of a gradual and narrow break with the continental bloc.
It was the latest in a series of signs that momentum for a clean break with the European Union has faltered since the Conservatives lost their parliamentary majority in June and started grappling with the weight of negotiating the departure.
“There is now near consensus that a transitional period is an economic and political necessity,” Keir Starmer, Labour’s shadow secretary for exiting the European Union, wrote in a newspaper 
The party’s new stance, he said, was “a grown-up acknowledgment that bespoke transitional arrangements are highly unlikely to be negotiated, agreed and established in the next 18 months.”
The Tories, on Sunday, dismissed the Labour proposal as “a weak attempt to kick the can down the road.”
“Labour have no idea what they want,” a 
Those who oppose Brexit altogether were hardly more welcoming, saying Labour’s “transitional period” was nothing more than a diversionary stalling tactic.
“This is all spin and no principle,” the Liberal Democrats, the party that has championed remaining in the European Union, said in a 
Although presented as a break with the Conservative-led government, the Labour position echoes a 
Fifty-two percent of voters chose to leave the European Union in a referendum a little more than a year ago, defying the recommendation of both major parties at the time.
But the referendum results specified neither a timetable for the break nor priorities for the future relations with the continent. That has set off complicated debates within each of the major parties. Until now, Labour’s leaders have sought to dodge the question while letting Conservatives feud among themselves.
Both parties are now promising to preserve as much as possible of European free trade rules, which are vital to the British economy. But on immigration — an issue that fired up the referendum vote for an exit — both parties are also pledging to impose new restrictions on the free movement of people, a requirement for membership in the single market.
European negotiators have resisted any suggestion that Britain might get to keep its borders open for trade but closed to migrants. Guy Verhofstadt, the European Parliament’s coordinator on 
By staking out a notably softer and more gradual approach, Labour has now set up the clearest contrast yet between the two parties.
“Labour would seek a transitional deal that maintains the same basic terms that we currently enjoy,” Mr. Starmer wrote in the column published Sunday. “That means we would seek to remain in a customs union with the E.U. and within the single market during this period. It means we would abide by the common rules of both.”
Beyond this transition period, he wrote, Labour would seek “a strong and lasting new relationship with the E.U. – not as members, as partners.” Such a relationship “must extend far beyond trade and security to include education, science, technology, medicine and culture” and retain “the benefits of the customs union and the single market,” he wrote.
But, Mr. Starmer added, the proposed “transitional period” should not be a “never-ending purgatory,” because that would not tackle “central issues the referendum exposed – in particular the need for more effective management of migration, which Labour recognize must be addressed in the final deal.”