
For Britain’s prime minister, Theresa May, the good news is that she still has her job, almost three months after she lost her parliamentary majority in a botched 
The not so good news is that her declaration that she intends to remain prime minister into the next decade was novel enough to make front-page headlines.
Speaking late Wednesday on a trip to Japan, Mrs. May surprised some members of her Conservative Party by suggesting that she wants to 
Echoing some of the steely language of 
Her comments were greeted with skepticism even from within her own party, whose former chairman, Grant Shapps, told the BBC that in June the Conservative ran “a very poor election, and you can’t just brush that under the table.”
Other critics, like the editorial page of the 
“Like the Living Dead in a second-rate horror film, the premiership of Theresa May staggers on oblivious,” The Standard wrote. “This was not supposed to be in the script.”
“It may be,” wrote Polly Toynbee in The 
As many analysts have stressed, the primary reasons Mrs. May has survived so far are the lack of an obvious alternative and the risk that replacing her will rekindle a bitter civil war within her party over Britain’s departure from the European Union, or Brexit.
The summer-long infighting, between those favoring a clean “hard” Brexit and those wanting to go slow to soften the impact on the economy, seemed to have been 
They seem content as long as Mrs. May continues to hold the long-term objective of quitting the European Union’s customs union, which guarantees tariff-free trade in goods, and its single market.
On Thursday, the latest round of discussions between the British government and the rest of the European Union ended without any sign of a breakthrough.
The chief European negotiator, Michel Barnier, said there has been “no decisive progress” on major issues and that talks were still “quite far” from the outline agreement needed to begin wider discussions on future trade arrangements. David Davis, Britain’s Brexit secretary, urged his interlocutors to be “more imaginative and flexible” in its approach.
European officials have frequently 
At times, Mrs. May has seemed almost a bystander in the debates within her own cabinet. When she took an extended vacation during the feuding this summer, her absence was barely noticed.
Ultimately, Conservative lawmakers will decide whether — or when — her leadership should end, with the next test being her reception at the party’s annual convention in October.
Mrs. May, who proved famously aloof during her early months in office, has been on a charm offensive lately, reportedly inviting legislators to her Chequers country home for 
Potential successors, like the chancellor of the Exchequer, Philip Hammond, and Mr. Davis, may be circling, but none calculate it is in their interests to strike now. Boris Johnson, the foreign secretary, has struggled on the international stage, and Ruth Davidson, the leader of the Scottish Conservatives, and arguably the party’s best performer, does not have a seat at the Westminster Parliament, which she would need to become leader.
Speculation has even grown about the leadership prospects of Jacob Rees-Mogg, a cerebral lawmaker who is almost a caricature of an old-line Tory.
The pressure on Mrs. May over Brexit was raised at the weekend, when the opposition Labour Party 
This does not resolve Labour’s long-term dilemma about the sort of Brexit it wants. But it does give the party the chance to harry Mrs. May in Parliament, where she will battle to pass the legislation she needs for Brexit, and where a small number of Conservative lawmakers favor Labour’s policy.
A parliamentary defeat there could topple Mrs. May. Yet, if she retreats, and falls into line with Labour’s plans for a transition, that may destabilize her own party and anger her Brexit hard-liners.
Either situation would benefit Labour’s leader, Jeremy Corbyn, who is himself a Euroskeptic, but whose priority is to force another general election, which he thinks he can win.
And after Mrs. May’s poor handling of the 
Describing Mrs. May’s comeback, the latest issue of the right-leaning magazine, The 
But speaking on the BBC, the magazine’s political editor, James Forsyth, concluded that most of the party’s lawmakers would not even try. The reason the reaction to her latest statement was relatively muted, he said, is that “they don’t take it that seriously.”