
BRUSSELS — 
With the clock ticking, hopes are fading that Brussels and London will make enough progress by an October summit to move discussions to the topic Britain cares about most: continued access to Europe’s single market and its 500 million consumers.
In a briefing for journalists, European Union officials ticked off a list of issues that they said remained unresolved before the talks are supposed to start Monday afternoon. They requested anonymity, as is routine while discussing the content of formal negotiations.
Britain had so far failed to present sufficiently detailed plans to preserve peace in Northern Ireland, and a 
The size of the bill Britain must pay for its departure was also unsettled, they added.
The distance between the two sides was described as very big, and there were scant expectations of a breakthrough next week.
One official dismissed British attempts to move the discussion to the future trading relationship without first settling the terms of divorce.
Adding to the theatrics, the former British prime minister, Tony Blair, who is a passionate opponent of his country leaving the bloc, will visit with Jean-Claude Juncker, the president of the European Commission president, on Thursday when the talks are expected to finish.
An overall accord is supposed to be concluded in October 2018, but unraveling 44 years of shared lawmaking and cooperation across a vast swath of sensitive policy areas, from fisheries to online privacy, is a mammoth task that looks increasingly hard to achieve.
Only two months since the formal start of talks in June, progress has already flagged, and tensions have developed between London and Brussels over a two-stage approach.
European Union officials first want sufficient progress on protecting the rights of European Union citizens in Britain, agreement on the cost of the departure, and to resolve the questions regarding Northern Ireland, before talks on a future trading relationship begin.
Asked on Friday by the BBC radio about the bill Britain would have to pay Brussels, Boris Johnson, the British foreign secretary, said the country would meet its legal obligations.
Mr. Johnson, who has previously been dismissive of the need for a financial settlement, declined to give a figure. But he said Britain “should pay not a penny more, not a penny less” of what those obligations required.
British efforts to redirect the talks toward future trade issues are one of the key irritants for Brussels.
The government of Prime Minister Theresa May “is balking at the two-stage approach to try to cross the Rubicon while remaining a citizen of Rome — that’s to say keep trade with Europe while abandoning the European Union, which is an unfeasible position,” said Hosuk Lee-Makiyama, the director of European Centre for International Political Economy, a research organization in Brussels.
European Union leaders are expected meet at an Oct. 19-20 summit to assess whether there has been sufficient progress to start second-stage talks on trade.
But there is a growing feeling that the decision will be put off until European Union leaders gather at their year-end summit on Dec. 13-14. That would leave less than a year to reach an overall deal.
European officials on Friday reserved some of their harshest criticism for British proposals on Northern Ireland, eliciting a sharp response from the British on Friday.
“We have always been clear about the importance we attach to Northern Ireland and the Good Friday Agreement — and to the lives and livelihoods of the people of Northern Ireland,” a spokesman for the British Department for Exiting the European Union said in a statement.
“That includes a proposal that the U.K. and E.U. should agree upfront on the crucial importance of avoiding a hard border for the peace process in Northern Ireland,” the statement added.
Both London and Brussels want to avoid the reinstatement of border checks — the hard border that many fear would raise the specter of a return to sectarian violence.
Britain has proposed using technological means to ensure that goods and people do not cross the border illegally. But that has not satisfied the Europeans, who first want more concrete commitments by London.
One of the European Union officials called the idea of an invisible border magical thinking, and said that the peace process should not be used as a bargaining chip.