
Donald J. Trump’s electoral victory, Brexit and the growing prominence of anti-trade and anti-immigration far-right political parties in Europe appear closely linked in timing and motivation. 
There is no denying that there have been large-scale layoffs and job losses in manufacturing in recent years. Those should be put in context, however. Workers are laid off much more frequently in sectors like construction, retail and even professional services. And data show that the people more likely to have suffered losses in jobs and income from trade are no more likely to vote for the far right.
Before the election, it was possible to use Gallup’s survey data to 
Postelection data from the 
That is hardly overwhelming support and is no higher than the share of workers in the construction industry, which does not compete with low-income countries, and lower than the share of workers in mining and agriculture, sectors in which the United States has a trade surplus with China.
Notably, that 13-percentage-point advantage is biased by the fact that people more inclined to like Mr. Trump — older, white, heterosexual Christian men — happen to be overrepresented in manufacturing jobs. The Trump manufacturing advantage shrinks to just three percentage points after taking into account demographic factors (race, age, gender, sexuality, religion and educational attainment) and becomes entirely insignificant after including attitudes about racism.
Trump voters are far more likely to disagree with statements like “I am angry that racism exists” and “White people in the U.S. have certain advantages because of the color of their skin.” Manufacturing sector exposure is among the least important factors in predicting Trump support.
In fact, 
Nor is technology a big concern. Only 9 percent of Trump supporters are worried that their job will become obsolete as a result of technology compared with 15 percent of those who don’t approve of the president.
Likewise, exposure to trade competition played no apparent role in persuading Obama voters to switch to Mr. Trump. People who voted for President Obama in 2012 accounted for about 12 percent of all Trump voters, but again, these voters were not disproportionately involved in the manufacturing sector, either nationally or in swing states. Around 8.7 percent of Trump voters who also voted for Mr. Obama in 2012 work in manufacturing, compared with 9.5 percent of Trump voters who voted for Mitt Romney.
Exposure to trade is even less important for far-right voters in Europe than it is for Trump voters. Using data from the European Social Survey, I find that working in manufacturing raises the probability of voting for a far-right party in the most recent election by less than one percentage point, using no demographic control variables. Adding the same controls as above — religion, race, age, education, gender — eliminates even that small effect.
As in the United States, European far-right voters were far more likely to express concerns about immigration and race, saying, for example, that they are discriminated against, or that being white should be an important factor in determining whether foreigners are allowed to migrate.
By contrast, voters reporting positive interactions with people from other races were much less likely to be far-right voters.
None of this is to say that economics is unimportant to nationalist voting. Both Trump voters and European far-right voters are distinguished by their strong dissatisfaction with the present state of the national economy, even controlling for demographic factors and attitudes on race and immigration.
Likewise, both groups are more likely to report that their family income situation is either difficult (for European far-right voters) or has gotten worse in the last four years (for Trump voters), even though family income is no lower for either group of voters.
In fact, it’s significantly higher for the average Trump voter. This is consistent with previous 
Even if nationalist voters are not direct victims of trade, many might still oppose it out of a belief — however mistaken — that cooperation with foreigners must come at the expense of their fellow citizens. While this view has historically been advanced by anticapitalist academics, it has seen new life among white nationalists on the right.
Voters on the far right and left have many valid grievances about the failure of conventional parties to create a fair, vibrant economy. I have written a 