
LONDON — The appearance of a former British tabloid journalist-turned-publicist in the revelations about Russia’s interference in last year’s presidential election may seem like a bizarre twist, but it should come as no surprise.
Rob Goldstone is a very recognizable British type. Seen on video playing in a casino money-blowing machine or re-enacting a children’s TV show on the deck of a cruise liner, or posting photos of himself in daffy headwear to Facebook, Mr. Goldstone cuts an almost Falstaffian figure: a cheery man of the people, always up for a laugh.
So he might have remained if he hadn’t also been caught on camera in Las Vegas in 2013 with his client, an Azerbaijani dynast and pop singer named Emin Agalarov, chatting with Donald J. Trump. Three years later, as Mr. Trump sealed the Republican Party nomination for president, Mr. Goldstone was writing to Mr. Trump’s eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., to claim that he had “high level and sensitive information” from a Russian government official to “incriminate” Mr. Trump’s Democratic rival, Hillary Clinton.
How did a British tabloid hack turned P.R. guru get caught up in this American scandal, which has left the president’s son struggling to explain why he was willing to seek “oppo research” from a hostile power?
According to Mr. Goldstone’s account, he moved from local journalism to work for Rupert Murdoch’s best-selling British daily newspaper The Sun and other tabloids before turning to public relations for pop stars. This career path happens to be ideal training in what Russian intelligence agencies call “kompromat,” because smear campaigns based on opposition research are a core business strategy of Britain’s popular press.
Our second-best-selling paper, The Daily Mail, specializes in hit jobs on public figures. Last year its front page proclaimed the High Court judges who had ruled that Brexit could be initiated only by Parliament to be “Enemies of the People,” denouncing one of them as “openly gay.”
The Sun is even more expert at brutal sensationalism. In 2014, its former deputy news editor, Ben O’Driscoll, told a court of “an enormous safe, about seven feet high,” filled with some 30 years’ worth of “eye-popping” material. The Drudge Report and Breitbart News look like amateurs and naïfs in comparison.
But it is Mr. Goldstone’s second career, as a pop publicist, that is truly emblematic of the British media’s evolution since the 1990s. It was then that celebrity journalism and a rich secondary market in P.R. took off.
Piers Morgan was the poster boy for this phenomenon. He turned The Sun’s show-business column, Bizarre, into one of the paper’s most successful franchises, visibly mixing with pop stars, sports heroes, minor royalty and fashionistas. In 1994, Mr. Murdoch made Mr. Morgan, then age 28, the editor of The News of the World
Under Mr. Morgan’s editorship, a young Rebekah Brooks rose rapidly. Another friend, Andy Coulson, took over his role with the Bizarre column. Ms. Brooks and Mr. Coulson later became editors of The News of the World while Mr. Morgan moved to The Daily Mirror. During the trio’s domination of the tabloid press, newspapers would spend millions on “buy outs” from publicists, particularly “kiss-and-tell” confessions.
Like hedge funds that speculate on derivative trades, celebrity journalism is a spread bet on the futures of public figures. Max Clifford, the most famous publicist of his day (until his downfall and disgrace as a convicted sex offender), used kompromat to ruin the reputations of several politicians, while his tabloid contacts helped keep his own clients out of the papers. The public appetite for such material spawned an industry of private investigators adept at the dark arts of bugging, phone hacking and acquiring confidential records.
The phone-hacking scandal in 2011 was a comeuppance of sorts. The News of the World closed; Ms. Brooks and Mr. Coulson both stood trial on charges related to phone hacking. In 2014, Ms. Brooks was acquitted, and a year later she resumed her role as chief executive of Mr. Murdoch’s newspaper group. Mr. Coulson was convicted on a conspiracy charge, but not before he had served as Prime Minister David Cameron’s head of communications in Downing Street.
Mr. Morgan was by then working in the United States, thanks to another British innovation that had crossed the Atlantic: reality TV, exported in formats developed in Britain like “Big Brother,” “Survivor” and “Pop Idol.”
Mr. Morgan deftly surfed this new wave, serving as a judge on “America’s Got Talent” before taking over Larry King’s spot at CNN. And, on the set of “The Apprentice,” he met and, as he tells it, befriended Donald Trump. Until recently, Mr. Morgan’s Twitter profile featured a photo of himself with Mr. Trump. In June 2016, just as Mr. Goldstone was setting up the Russian lawyer’s meeting with the Trump campaign, Mr. Morgan was praising his friend’s special talents among those “skillfully manipulating the media to fuel their personal and professional brands.”
Forget Shakespeare and Dickens, or even the Beatles and David Bowie. Today Britain’s most important cultural export to the United States is the use of tabloid tricks and reality TV techniques for influence and profit. Rob Goldstone may look like a bit player in this story, but he is an avatar of the new power brokers in the age of politics as entertainment. Welcome to your new ruling class. Made in Britain.