
After opinion polls in 
Despite 
“This first round is the revenge for the polling institutes,” proclaimed 
How did the French pollsters get it right when pollsters in other countries have not?
The need to take the National Front seriously was made clear in 2002, when Ms. Le Pen’s father, Jean-Marie Le Pen, 
Polling experts said French pollsters had also benefited from a robust turnout of 78.7 percent in the first round.
“If the voters pollsters talk to turn out in force, there is less risk of getting it wrong,” said 
Several French pollsters also credited their success to the widespread use of online polling. While the practice has its critics, some pollsters say people are more likely to acknowledge that they are voting for a far-right party like the National Front if they are doing so by clicking a box on a website rather than if they are being asked by a stranger over the phone.
“In online polling you guard against the problem of hidden voters, who don’t want to admit to a stranger who they are voting for,” said 
Getting the polls right initially appeared daunting for many pollsters. In the 16 weeks leading up to the first-round vote, assessing the prospects of a fragmented field of 11 candidates, including Jean-Luc Mélenchon, a leftist, and François Fillon, a center-right candidate hit by scandals, appeared so fraught that the newspaper Le Parisien, which regularly runs polls, decided not to run any.
Adding to the challenges for pollsters, Mr. Macron was running without a political party and some doubted that his new movement could mobilize voters. Mr. Fillon, initially the front-runner, became mired in a corruption scandal. Mr. Mélenchon surged after a televised debate. Then, less than 36 hours before the polls opened, 
“We were worried before the election because this was not a traditional election between left and right, and there was a large element of unpredictability,” said 
But the results largely mirrored the polls. On April 21, the last day forecasts were published ahead of the vote, an average of eight major polls assembled by OpinionWay put Mr. Macron at 24 percent, Ms. Le Pen at 22.4 percent, Mr. Fillon at 19.4 percent and Mr. Mélenchon at 18.9 percent. The final results: 24 percent for Mr. Macron; 21.3 percent for Ms. Le Pen; 20 percent for Mr. Fillon; and 19.6 percent for Mr. Mélenchon.
Looking to the second round, the candidates are offering diametrically opposed visions of France. While Mr. Macron, a former banker, favors economic liberalism and more European integration, Ms. Le Pen rails against immigrants, globalization and the European Union.
French pollsters say they are confident they can replicate their success in the first round and are predicting that Mr. Macron will win by as much as 20 percentage points.
But voters around the world are learning to be wary of certainties, and some analysts see 