
Not many writers I know can craft coherence while running through (in order, in the first 1,000 words) BuzzFeed, Gutenberg, the Reformation, the Enlightenment, Kafka, Goethe and Shakespeare. He then went on to rain bile on the “great American novel” for leading to “books so huge that, like large plastic bags, they ought to be issued with warnings of death by asphyxiation if you take them to bed to read.”
Suddenly grateful (never again will I feel a need to read “
In addition to my regular roundup of recent Times articles, and a recommendation from our own Jacqueline Williams, both found below, I figured I’d share some of that conversation.
Tell us what you think at 
______
“Don’t underestimate the differences between your country and mine because Australians might agree with you. Definitions belong to the definer, not the defined, and Australians long ago learned it is easier to agree with the misunderstandings than fight them.
“
“A small distinction between the U.S. and Australia that may as well be the Grand Canyon.”
“When Australians visit the U.S. they see a country in decline. Australians see the bad airports, the infrastructure, the poor, the beggars. 
“When I go to your country, I’m still always overwhelmed by the generosity of spirit. You want to do something and people give you 10 reasons why it will succeed. You come to Australia and they’ll tell you 10 reasons why it will fail.”
“Australians don’t believe. Not in themselves or their country or their Constitution, such as it is, nor its history or destiny. We were a secular people from the beginning, albeit it with, when you scratch, an eerie spiritual edge.
“
“
“Americans impose the innocence of the frontier. There’s a desire to see Australia as an ideal America or some ‘golden age’ America, and it’s just not.
______
A quick roundup of favorite reads this week:
★ Waleed Aly, well known to many of you perhaps from “
★ The Turnbull-Netanyahu 
★ What makes someone American? The questions of identity in 
★ “Rudeness itself is not the calamity,” Rachel Cusk writes in 
★ Is China pushing Trump to talk to North Korea? 
★ Top stories among Times readers in Australia and New Zealand: A 
I’ve had a bunch of conversations lately with Australians — including some readers of this newsletter — who recently moved back to Oz after years away. Jacqueline Williams, my colleague, is one of them, and in addition to asking her about what’s been most striking upon return (the weather, of course) I also slipped in this question:
Her answer: “A magical little place on the south coast of NSW called Rosedale. Don’t tell anyone.”
Too late!
Tell me your favorite spot, and whatever else I should know, at nytaustralia@nytimes.com.