
Britain’s announced departure from the European Union last year, commonly known as Brexit, set off a political crisis that compelled a special general election there on June 8, the result of which threw an unexpected amount of leverage to the Labour Party, which is more sympathetic to immigrants. The open borders of the European Union and growing resentment in certain quarters over immigration and a multicultural England continue to be contentious issues — making the British movie 
Written and directed by Atul Malhotra, the movie isn’t a political film as such, but its themes of friendship and assimilation among varied ethnic groups in West London are an update to the coming-of-age buddy comedy. Released in British theaters in 2015, the film focuses on three young men, who are first seen as children in home-movie style footage. Amar, a Sikh whose family immigrated to England from India when he was about 10, notes that his father “opened the 14th Indian restaurant on the High Road.” Cut to 2003, and Amar, Akbar (also from India) and their British pal Tony sit in a car as the effusive Akbar dispenses advice on how to talk to a South Asian woman who has a very protective brother.
This romantic challenge is played for broad comedy in the first 20 minutes, but then a nightclub lavatory fight takes a grisly turn, and the movie shifts gears. There’s a seemingly star-crossed romance that appears rote, but the story’s twists reveal the restrictions and possibilities that some immigrants find when facing the prospect of assimilation within the West.
“I was almost never seeing Asian people represented onscreen in a non-two-dimensional way — they’re almost always comic foils who need a white savior,” Mr. Malhotra told me in a Skype interview. “Or they’re terrorists or wife-beaters. They don’t even speak in a manner I recognize.”
Mr. Malhotra said he conceived the film “as a kind of bastard child of British indie cinema and Bollywood.” Indeed, the title nods to a 1977 Bollywood picture, 
Mr. Malhotra also wanted to acknowledge the complexity that young immigrants navigate, showing one side of themselves to their friends and another to families. “In romantic relationships, there’s frequently a kind of dual identity,” he said. “When you’re a young man dating a young woman, and you relate to each other in a particular way as young adults, and then you meet her family and you have to contend with someone who’s now playing the role of a vestal virgin, practically. It goes both ways, of course.”
For the actor Rez Kempton, who plays Amar, making the film provided a bit of culture shock. “I’m a native East Londoner, and that side of town is a little more eclectic in its ethnic mix, so I wasn’t directly privy to the kind of constrictions a young man would feel in a community that was so strongly South Asian,” he said. (Mr. Kempton is currently appearing on the London stage in 
Immigration concerns aren’t the only issues streaming at the moment. I don’t think that the site Filmstruck, which specializes in classic and art-house cinema, tailors its offerings to fit current events. But a few days after news of a 
Coincidental or not, the series is worth checking out. 
The 1948 British adventure picture 
There are also three documentaries, “South: Sir Ernest Shackleton and the Endurance Expedition” (1919); “With Byrd at the South Pole” (1930); and a Filmstruck original short, “The Antarctican,” in which the marine biologist Sam Bowser juxtaposes his real-life impressions of the continent with a generic cinematic vision of it. Rounding out the program is the peculiar 1971 drama 