
A U.S. Court of Appeals in San Francisco could soon issue a ruling on 
The administration has been ordered to file a brief defending Mr. Trump’s action. The latest round of legal fighting began on Friday when a Federal District Court judge in Seattle suspended the order nationwide.
How much constitutional authority the president has over immigration is one of the 
With the suspension of the travel ban, refugees already vetted by the government 
“We are encouraging people to come in as soon as possible,” said the director of a legal services and advocacy group for immigrants.
That was Mr. Trump discussing a possible timetable for putting in place a new health care law.
The remark, from an interview with Fox News that aired on Sunday, signals 
Britain’s vote to leave the European Union has left Prime Minister Theresa May and Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany on opposite sides of a chasm, not just on “Brexit” but also on broader issues, including security threats.
We look at their 
The game wasn’t the only exciting part of the event. We reviewed 
Our reporter Michael Barbaro runs down the big stories and the big ideas. Fifteen minutes a day, five days a week.
Listen 
A key to staying motivated is creating habits that take away opportunities to slip up, a concept my colleague Charles Duhigg explored: “At the core of every habit is a neurological loop with three parts: a cue, a routine and a reward. To understand how to create habits — such as exercise habits — you must learn to establish the right cues and rewards.”
Throughout February, we will feature photographs from The Times’s archives, with a special focus on the 1960s.
This week, 
Dr. David Fajgenbaum was a former college athlete nicknamed the Beast. But a rare disease decimated his body and baffled specialists.
So he dedicated himself 
Alex Lewis, a pub owner in Britain, also fell victim to a devastating illness, and it left him a quadruple amputee. But his outlook 
In New York City, a subway rider noticed anti-Semitic graffiti covering the car’s windows and maps. Instead of letting it go, he and several other passengers took action, 
Last week, the actor 
The Doctor — who isn’t referred to as Doctor Who — is a Time Lord from a distant planet who explores the universe in a time machine called the Tardis (which stands for Time and Relative Dimension in Space). A plucky human companion usually accompanies the Doctor, who faces a rotating cast of alien adversaries.
Originally conceived as a family-friendly educational program, the series began in 1963 and, with the exception of a 16-year gap (1989-2005), has been broadcast ever since.
The show is a national institution in Britain and a cult favorite elsewhere, with more than 800 episodes (
The Doctor is capable of regenerating, a concept that was introduced to prolong the series when its first lead actor, William Hartnell, left amid failing health.
Mr. Capaldi is the 12th actor — and the 12th white man — to fill the role. Fans have urged the producers to address 