
Last year was a series of disruptions for Mariah Carey — some unsteady live shows, a reality show that simmered but never popped, and finally, a New Year’s Eve performance that 
Sydney Bennett called herself Syd the Kyd when she got started as a teenage producer, songwriter and singer with the hip-hop collective Odd Future and one of its spinoffs, the psychedelic neo-soul band the Internet. She’s just Syd on her debut solo album, “Fin,” and on “Body,” as on most of the album, she keeps things whispery and ruthlessly austere. “Body” is a girl-and-girl lust song that creeps along on just a few tapping drum sounds, a low oozing bass line, rhythmic breathing and, eventually, call-and-response vocals that imply all the pleasures are mutual.
Phil Elverum, who records as Mount Eerie, faces the death of his wife with a modest and devastating elegy. It’s a gently sung, slowly unfolding march that wanders through the aftermath in both its mundanity — “you still get mail” — and in its overwhelming sorrow, facing the moments “when I walk into the room where you were and look into the emptiness instead.” J.P.
“BagBak” has a beat with the familiar Vince Staples slap, but also a layer of digital urgency, and lyrics with the familiar Vince Staples virtuosity, compounded with a layer of political urgency. Mr. Staples sounds fiery here, taking in police discrimination, gentrification and prisons in short order, concluding that one black president is not enough:
We need Tamikas and Shaniquas in that Oval Office
J.C.
Depeche Mode’s synth-pop stays dire and brittle in “Where’s the Revolution.” As usual, it’s a staccato setting for Dave Gahan’s baleful baritone croon, with single notes ticking like a countdown clock while other sounds poke in with sudden syncopations. But this time, the music moves away from the club dance floor; it moves in six beats rather than four. And the lyrics are as bluntly political as old Depeche Mode songs like "New Dress," openly confronting a new propaganda regime: "They manipulate and threaten/With terror as a weapon/Scare you till you’re stupefied." Depeche Mode don’t expect to lead a movement, only to encourage one.
A detuned, dissonant funk vamp carries “Europe Is Lost,” a bleak and rapid-fire assessment of the state of the world by the English poet, playwright and rapper Kate Tempest. It’s a barrage
Sevdaliza, an Iranian singer now based in Amsterdam, came to the Netherlands as a refugee when she was a child. She had planned to release an album of moody, experimental, internationalist pop with lyrics in English, and to perform in the United States in spring. That changed with the Trump travel ban, and she recorded “Bebin” — “Behold” — in Farsi, countering exclusion with a profession of “love for this world.” The slow, modal, mostly electronic track, suggests a trap version of Jefferson Airplane’s “White Rabbit,” as Sevadaliza’s breathy, quavering and then pealing voice is answered by eerie strings, haunted by distance. J.P.
In the past, the exceedingly popular rock band Imagine Dragons has found a complicated path toward dullness. On “Believer,” its new single — and the soundtrack to a Nintendo commercial scheduled to air during the Super Bowl — it inverts its process. The frontman Dan Reynolds sings nimbly, and the band emphasizes restraint, making an arena-size thwap-and-boom with Billy Squier directness. J.C.
For a rapper as fundamentally ahistorical as Young Thug, he certainly goes out of his way to collaborate with rappers from generations long past. There have been a couple of recent tag-teams with Wyclef Jean, and now this, with Juvenile, who was to New Orleans in the late 1990s what Young Thug is to modern-day Atlanta. Here, Juvenile is ferocious and tart in his verse, while Young Thug, who comes second, is characteristically whimsical and slippery, his lyrics melting into droplets in real time. J.C.
When she was 11 years old, Louise Burns helped found Lillix, an all-girl Canadian pop band that signed to Madonna’s Maverick Records. In 2011, she began her solo career, which is