
LONDON — When Prime Minister Theresa May 
No longer.
While Mrs. May is still expected to win, the previously yawning gap between her and the Labour Party leader, Jeremy Corbyn, has narrowed, reflecting, experts say, a growing consensus that her campaign has stumbled badly. A more limited win could potentially undermine her authority as she negotiates Britain’s torturous departure from the European Union.
One analysis, published Wednesday, predicts that neither major party will win an outright majority, potentially forcing the formation of a messy coalition government.
But British pollsters have been among the biggest losers in recent elections — including 
On Wednesday, Mr. Corbyn shook up the race with a last-minute decision to join a televised debate in Cambridge that Mrs. May did not attend. Emboldened after a 
“Refusing to join me in Cambridge tonight would be another sign of Theresa May’s weakness, not strength,” Mr. Corbyn, who has been trying to revamp his own image as a weak-kneed pacifist, said in a statement.
In explaining why she would not be participating, 
The home secretary, Amber Rudd, represented the Conservatives in the televised debate.
Just six weeks ago, Mrs. May had a lead of as much as 24 percentage points over Mr. Corbyn in some polls. Pundits were already asking if Mr. Corbyn, a gaffe-prone leftist viewed by many in his own party as unelectable, would step down if he lost the election. “
Now, though, after initially casting herself successfully as the only “strong” and “stable” leader qualified to lead Britain as it exits the European Union, Mrs. May appears to have alienated many voters through a mix of hubris and austerity policies. At the same time, Mr. Corbyn, the beneficiary of subterranean expectations, appears to have been given a lift by simply not messing up badly.
Seeking to explain the perceived reversal of Mrs. May’s fortunes, 
“The Conservatives don’t seem to have a strong message to their campaign,” he said. “May has fashioned herself as ‘not Corbyn’ without explaining why people should vote for her. At the same time, she has made some very damaging U-turns, while Corbyn has not proven to be the scary monster that some had feared.”
We want to hear from British voters on how their country’s exit from the European Union may have affected their political views.
Mrs. May, who has sought to portray herself as a compassionate conservative, provoked the ire of many voters when, during this month’s publication of the 
Adding ammunition to rivals seeking to portray her as a Scrooge, the conservatives proposed a less advantageous system for automatic raises in pensions and contentious plans to 
In contrast, the Labour Party’s manifesto offered many populist measures, among them increasing funding for the National Health Service and a pledge to scrap 
He said many initially reluctant Labour voters, who had voted for the party in the past but had been wavering, had also decided to stay. “A lot of people regarded Corbyn as useless and extreme and not up to running the country,” he said. “But when exposed to him over the past few weeks, a number have found him not so bad after all.”
Mrs. May’s conspicuous absence at Wednesday’s debate overshadowed the event as her opponents criticized her for running scared. “How dare you call a general election and run away from the debate,” Tim Farron, leader of the Liberal Democrats, said, chiding her openly. Addressing voters, he added: “You’re not worth Theresa May’s time. Don’t give her yours.”
The Scottish National Party deputy leader, Angus Robertson, also criticized her for not having the “guts” to face voters.
Mrs. May’s absence threatened to solidify a growing perception of her, fairly or not, as remote and arrogant. On Monday, she had already declined to appear on the same stage to debate Mr. Corbyn, resulting in an awkward spectacle in which both candidates were questioned separately.
That had followed a series of embarrassing flip-flops — not the least her call for early elections after insisting she would not — that were undercutting her carefully cultivated image for straight-talking honesty. A satirical song about her, “Liar, Liar,” shot to the 
Referring to Mrs. May’s decision not to attend the debate — and invoking former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher’s famous phrase of steadfastness, “the lady’s not for turning” — 
Whoever wins, Ed Miliband, the former Labour leader who lost badly in 2015 after predictions of a close race, warned against giving credence to the pollsters, who had shown their fallibility.
“The pollsters have been off my Christmas card list since 2015,” he wrote on Twitter.