
PARIS — Michel Onfray, a best-selling French pop philosopher, was sounding pretty upbeat on the phone, even though the title of his latest book is “Decadence: The Life and Death of the Judeo-Christian Tradition.”
His book had just come out, with an impressive press run of 120,000 copies, and was selling briskly in spite of — or perhaps because of — its gloomy prognostication. “If you think today about terrorism, the rise of populism, it was important to put that in perspective,” Mr. Onfray said recently. His research, he added, “shows a civilization that had been strong, that had ceased to be so and that’s heading toward its end.”
Mr. Onfray is one of the latest popular authors to join France’s booming decline industry, a spate of books and articles (with a handful of TV shows) that explore the country’s (and the West’s) failings and France’s obsession with those failings. (Last year, the word “déclinisme,” or “declinism,” 
Beyond Mr. Onfray’s, other books with decline on their minds have appeared in the past few weeks. “
There’s also “An Imaginary Racism” by the left-leaning philosopher Pascal Bruckner, who was 
“The thing that’s very striking now is how pervasive those ideas are,” said Sudhir Hazareesingh, a professor at Oxford University and the 
France’s preoccupation with decline has been dated by some scholars to the counter-Enlightenment of the early 19th century, and to the late 1970s and the end of three decades of postwar economic growth by others. Today, different “declinist” strains have merged, from Catholic reactionaries to nonreligious thinkers preoccupied by questions of national identity and political corruption.
With France’s presidential elections looming in April, these often abstract ideas are taking more concrete form as the hard-right National Front and the center-right Republican Party capitalize on sentiments of decline exacerbated by economic malaise and terrorist attacks.
Mr. Onfray’s “Decadence” begins with early Christian history, traverses the French Revolution, then sweeps in the Holocaust, the fall of the Berlin Wall and the 1989 fatwa against Salman Rushdie, which Mr. Onfray says prefigured the 2015 attacks at the French satirical journal Charlie Hebdo. Though he looks beyond France in his diagnosis, his homeland is central for much of its nearly 600 pages.
Mr. Baverez, a lawyer and economist whose “Chronicles of French Decline” came out this week and whose “France in Free Fall” was a hit in 2003, said he didn’t believe in the idea of declinism.
“It’s a false concept because it gives the impression that decline is something fated,” said Mr. Baverez, who has consulted with François Fillon, the center-right presidential candidate now caught up in a 
Even in a country like France, where pleasure is held sacred, decline does seem to be better business than optimism.
“To put it in Manichaean terms: Anything positive doesn’t sell, and anything negative sells, as if there were a sort of masochism on the part of some readers,” said the historian Robert Frank, the author of the 2014 book “The Fear of Decline: France from 1914 to 2014.”
“
The right-wing magazine Valeurs Actuelles, which publishes frequent warnings about the decline of France and the threat of Islamic terrorism, saw its combined print and digital circulation rise to 119,000 copies last year from 86,000 in 2011, according to figures provided by the magazine.
The decline boom seems to manifest itself in books and intellectual debate more than in popular culture, although some French television shows have waded into the murky waters. Recent seasons of “Engrenages,” or “Spiral,” a dark police drama, paint a bleak picture.
Not everyone is so pessimistic. “Yes, the French speak about ‘déclinisme’ and are fascinated by decadence, but the most popular political figure in France today is the only one that speaks of hope,” said the political scientist Dominique Moïsi, author of “
He was referring to Emmanuel Macron, the former economy minister in the current Socialist government who founded his own insurgent party and has been gaining momentum.
Even if declinism is going strong, France’s birthrate is still among the highest in Europe, and studies have consistently shown the French to be 
Some hope the decline industry has peaked. “I think Trump and Brexit were a kind of electric shock, and something changed,” said Cécile Daumas, the editor of the Ideas section of the French left-wing daily Libération.
She pointed to “A World History of France,” by the medieval historian 
The challenge is that “the partisans of decline have formed a vocabulary, a way of speaking that’s accessible to the broader public,” Ms. Daumas said. “The progressive intellectuals of the left lost their public and are trying to get it back,” she added. “It’s a real battle.”