
Jonathan Lipsmeyer, a part-time wine buyer, was so upset after Donald J. Trump won the election last year that he volunteered to teach English to Muslim Americans.
“For me this was important because it helps address the anti-immigrant, anti-Muslim spirit that seems to be enveloping the country,” said Mr. Lipsmeyer, 42, who lives in the Cobble Hill section of Brooklyn. “My first thought was, this whole hateful tide was sweeping the planet after ‘Brexit,’ Trump’s election and the rise of the right wing in France, and I can help.”
Mr. Lipsmeyer signed up with 
New York Cares reported a 137 percent increase in would-be volunteers just in the week after the election, compared with the same week in November 2015. That figure covered would-be volunteers like Mr. Lipsmeyer who were interested in teaching English or helping people prepare for citizenship tests.
“We feel the pressure of people wanting to attend” orientations for new volunteers, 
“One of our jobs is to be ready to pivot” when there is a surge of volunteers, he said, adding: “There really is no shortage of need in New York. Very often, we just expand our capacity, get more people out where they want to go.”
Other organizations in New York that depend on volunteers also reported increases in volunteers this year, and traffic on a volunteering website maintained by the city has risen 20 percent in the past six months. City officials consider the site an important measure of interest, because nonprofit groups post openings for volunteers there.
Nationally, the online service VolunteerMatch has seen activity on its website climb by 7 percent in June, compared with June 2016, its president, Greg Baldwin, said. The site showed increases in crisis support advocacy and hunger, immigration and veterans’ affairs.
But the largest increase, nearly 199 percent, was in the category VolunteerMatch calls “politics.” The 16 volunteer jobs listed recently on its website were for nonpartisan groups dealing with climate change or poverty or human rights.
“The through line is we’ve heard from many people who are reaching out for the first time,” Emily Lo Bue, its director of corporate and volunteer relations, said. Sanctuary for Families uses about 3,000 volunteers a year, she said, including lawyers who donate their time or whose time is donated by law firms.
The higher numbers came as City Hall completed a study, which was started before the election, that said 48 percent of New Yorkers volunteer in some way — more than three times the rate reported in the Corporation for National and Community Service’s annual “Volunteering and Civic Life in America Report” last year. The New York study was based on survey interviews with more than 850 people in western Queens from August 2016 to March 2017.
Paula L. Gavin, the chief service officer in the de Blasio administration, said there had been “anecdotes and instincts” that more volunteering was happening in New York than the national numbers indicated. The survey provided data as city officials looked at ways to strengthen volunteer networks around the city.
The national report said volunteers tended to be people who were older, native-born English speakers and college-educated, and owned their own homes and had higher incomes. In the city, Ms. Gavin said, “The most striking pattern we found in the course of the study was high levels of volunteering even among New Yorkers who don’t fit many of these characteristics.”
Among the people interviewed, 45.7 percent of those earning $20,000 to $40,000 said they did some type of volunteer work — a slightly smaller percentage than among those earning $40,000 to $100,000 (48.5 percent) or those making more than $100,000 (50 percent).
As for education, 51.9 percent of those with college degrees did volunteer work and 63.3 percent with graduate degrees did so, according to the New York study. But the percentage for those who did not finish high school was 45.7 percent, slightly higher than for those with high school diplomas.
That study also found that the largest number volunteered through religious groups: 30.4 percent, compared with 17.9 percent who volunteered through school groups, 11.6 percent through community service groups and 7.1 percent through neighborhood associations.
How much the respondents’ interest in volunteering was prompted by national events like President Trump’s election and inauguration was unclear. Laura Rog, the city’s director of volunteer strategy and development, said most of the interviews were conducted before the election. “I think we’re uncovering that people were engaged all along,” she said.
Among those who said they did not volunteer, time pressures were by far the biggest factor. More than 76 percent of New Yorkers who did not volunteer in the past year cited “time demands.”
Ms. Rog says New Yorkers spend more time commuting to work than people in other places do, and that cuts into the time they could allot for activities like volunteering.
Another 10 percent said they had not volunteered because no one had asked them to, and 9.6 percent said they did not find the volunteer activities that were available interesting or felt they could not make an “individual impact.”
Mr. Lipsmeyer, the New York Cares volunteer, said he had taken on a second volunteer job, delivering flowers at a home for older adults in Cobble Hill. He said it had been unexpectedly emotional.
He described making the rounds and assuring a resident that the flowers were free.
“Then he said, ‘You don’t have a cellphone I could borrow to call my daughter?’” Mr. Lipsmeyer recalled. “I said, ‘Here, take my phone.’ I wondered how is this going to go, is it a scam. He hands the phone back. He’s in tears. He says, ‘You made my day.’”