
Mr. Macron had recruited a roster of newcomers to politics, 
But turnout was the 
Among those facing a second-round vote: 
_____
transcript
Theresa May lost Britain’s elections on Thursday but her opponent Jeremy Corbyn didn’t win. That’s a recipe for chaos. Because what it means is that no single party won an outright majority. May had a majority in parliament. But she wanted an even greater majority. So she took a big risk and called a snap election three years early. She was expected to win at least 50 seats. She ended up losing 12. The humiliating defeat means she no longer has the momentum to negotiate a strong exit from the E.U. It also means she no longer even has a majority to push other parts of her agenda. So what happened? The U.K. saw its largest turnout in 25 years, over 1.5M people registered to vote just in the month leading up to the election. The biggest chunk of those were young people. After Brexit, many doubted younger voters would come out this time around. But the apathy turned into action for the 2017 general election. Jeremy Corbyn saw a significant increase for Labour (the biggest since 1997 when Tony Blair won). Key districts flipped or gained significant ground. Wales, university towns like Sheffield and Manchester, and areas with pro-Europe voters, like London. The U.K. moved back towards a distinctly two-party system. So what’s next? May is still the Prime Minister, but her position has become precarious. In order to create a majority, she’s trying to form a government with the Democratic Unionist Party of Northern Ireland, an extremely socially conservative party that favors Brexit, but wants to maintain free trade agreements with Europe. The disarray in Britain gives the E.U. new leverage over Brexit. The Brexit negotiation table has turned. After Macron’s win in France, the E.U. looks less under threat as it did six months ago. Ten days before negotiations are set to start, the conversation has changed. May’s “Hard Brexit” is now likely to be a lot softer.
Though she asked 
Mrs. May seeks to continue to govern with the support of the Democratic Unionist Party, a 
Jeremy Corbyn of the Labour Party benefited from a 
_____
The British police released images of 
President Trump 
_____
Separately, some gay Chechens, facing persecution at home, 
In Ukraine, an assassin pretending to be a French journalist 
_____
And 
_____
The staging was powerful: A U.S. president stood behind panels of bulletproof glass near the Berlin Wall at the height of the Cold War.
On this day 30 years ago, President Ronald Reagan issued a challenge to the Soviet leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev. “Mr. Gorbachev, open this gate! Mr. Gorbachev, tear down this wall!”
The wall — which had divided the German capital since 1961 — was a physical and metaphorical symbol of the ideological and economic differences that separated East and West.
The effects of Reagan’s speech have since been 
But this much is certain: A little more than two years later, on Nov. 9, 1989, 