
LONDON — Jamael Westman was 14 when he took the stage in his first musical, a school spoof of “Pirates of the Caribbean” called “Pirates of the Curriculum.” After that, he gave musical theater a nice long rest.
But break time is over for Mr. Westman. Now 25 and a year and change out of drama school, he is making his West End debut — and his return to musicals — in the splashiest way possible: playing the title role in 
“Musicals are not something I’m too familiar with, or have been,” Mr. Westman said one late-November morning at a restaurant in Westminster. Next door, the Victoria Palace Theater was, from the street, a picture of disarray. Major renovations that 
Mr. Westman, by contrast, was utterly composed — thoughtful, quick-witted and funny as he talked about his induction into the world of a juggernaut show whose power and scale didn’t quite hit him until he’d already won the job.
It is only the third role on his résumé since graduating last year from the 
But “Hamilton,” which started performances here on Dec. 6, didn’t get to be a phenomenon by having a clumsy way with casting. If you count all of the show’s companies — Broadway, Chicago, London, the tour of the United States — the team has found more than a dozen Hamiltons so far, understudies included. Mr. Westman, an intellectually curious, classically trained actor who loves hip-hop and whose own speech is rapid-fire and emphatically italicized, seems a natural for spitting Mr. Miranda’s intricate lyrical rhymes.
The director Thomas Kail, who won one of the show’s 11 Tony Awards last year, said that part of what got Mr. Westman the role was his unflappability throughout the auditions, during which he performed in close quarters for potentially unnerving audiences that included Mr. Miranda and Cameron Mackintosh, who owns the theater where “Hamilton” is expected to settle in for a long run.
“I was not just impressed by it, but I was moved by it,” Mr. Kail said by phone. “Jam was unfazed, and just got deeper and sharper. That sort of fearlessness is essential to play this part.”
Mr. Westman credits his ability to keep in check “all these things that could easily explode in your mind” partly to the awareness that losing focus would be counterproductive — the sort of disciplined alertness that can only have been helped by his enduring passion for playing soccer. Yet when he was auditioning, he also didn’t know enough about “Hamilton” or Mr. Miranda to be outright awed.
“It was just, you know, standing right next to a monolith and not really getting the scope of what this thing was,” he said.
He can tell you now that his first experience of seeing “Hamilton” — on Broadway last spring, hours after he got the job — left him blown away, bawling his eyes out, suddenly understanding the show’s full force. “I had to call my mum,” he said. “It was the most uplifting thing I’ve ever seen.” A few months later, he brought her and his teenage brother to see it in New York, too.
But back in drama school, when he and some friends were “just vibing on hip-hop albums,” sharing them with one another, he casually mocked a friend’s suggestion that he listen to “Hamilton.”
“He was like, ‘Man, this is a musical,’” Mr. Westman said, making the scornful face of his smart-aleck student self — not just a hip-hop snob, but also an actor dedicated to straight plays despite a lifelong love of singing. “I’m like, ‘Stop what you’re doing, put your pens down, the test is over, you’ve failed. I’m sorry.’ But he was like, ‘No, man, listen to it.’”
Mr. Westman, whose experience of musicals at the time was limited to a West End visit to “The Lion King,” eventually followed his friend’s advice.
He has, of course, long since been thoroughly won over by “Hamilton,” if not necessarily by musicals as a genre. “As much as this is a musical,” he said, “it’s like an evolved superbaby of musical and hip-hop. That’s where I come in.”
By now he has twice read Ron Chernow’s 
Mr. Westman made a Hamilton tour of the city, visiting spots like 
“Didn’t get to Weehawken,” Mr. Westman said, referring to the spot across the Hudson River in New Jersey where Hamilton’s 
“Hamilton” is a very New York story, and a very American one, about the nation in its infancy as it was breaking away from British rule. Yet the show’s racial politics resonate in London, too.
Just as it is on Broadway, “Hamilton” is unusual in the West End for having a majority-minority cast — a fact that Mr. Westman (whose alternate, Ash Hunter, will play the role at certain performances) finds frustrating in a multiethnic society. He wants more inclusivity in casting, which is often white by default, especially in period pieces. “It’s like we’re putting chains on our imagination,” he said.
The show, with its pro-immigrant message, arrives in London at a time when the fallout of the Brexit vote, and an accompanying anti-immigrant fervor, have many re-examining their Britishness.
Irish on his mother’s side and Jamaican on his father’s, Mr. Westman is among them.
It’s quite a moment, then, for this grandson of immigrants to be starring in a show that celebrates the people who came from elsewhere and helped build a nation. No matter that, in “Hamilton,” that nation is the United States. To Mr. Westman, the resemblance to his own country is clear.
Generation after generation, he said, immigrants have arrived in Britain in need of “a safe place to start over again” — just like Alexander Hamilton in the American colonies, an ocean away and all those years ago.