
James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director, confirmed before the House intelligence committee today that his agency was 
Mr. Comey also said that he had no information supporting Mr. Trump’s claim that he was wiretapped on the orders of President Barack Obama. The unsubstantiated assertion has 
Overlapping inquiries by the House, the Senate and the F.B.I. have 
Judge Neil M. Gorsuch is set to make his first lengthy public remarks since Mr. Trump nominated him for the Supreme Court.
The Senate Judiciary Committee is scheduled to begin considering the judge’s nomination this morning. 
We have 
The president is 
But Mr. Trump has so far maintained his predecessor’s strategy of trying 
Without Chuck Berry’s twitchy, gloriously accessible songs, there would have been no Rolling Stones, no Beatles, no Bob Dylan — at least not as we know them. 
We examined 
In the war on drugs, few tactics have proved as 
We also look at 
In today’s show, our reporter talks about his yearlong investigation into what happens when SWAT officers storm into homes to execute search warrants.
Listen from 
But what about the weekend? For eight years, our Metropolitan section has asked New Yorkers about their Sunday routines. Some regular themes: sleeping in late, spending more time with family, and enjoying cultural activities.
You can find the 
On the women’s side, 
In today’s 
As part of 
For International Women’s Day this month, we looked at 
Today, we’re answering a reader’s follow-up question: What is it like on the other side of the equation, for women who hold just a few seats in national legislatures?
In India, roughly 
“I just brush it aside,” Ms. Sule, 47, said. “I am a professional.”
A male lawmaker might say of a female colleague’s outfit, “Oh, what a beautiful sari it is, it’s nicer than the sari you were wearing yesterday,” she added. “I come to Parliament to work, I don’t know what you were wearing yesterday.”
Ms. Sule said she hoped Prime Minister Narendra Modi would push for a long-stalled bill to ensure one-third of the seats in the Lok Sabha and in state assemblies were filled by women.
“We must have equal representation,” she said.