
OXFORD, England — In the 2017 world of politics and the news media, there is, we all know, no longer any “normal.” Even so, the announcement this month of the new editor of The London Evening Standard caused a seismic ripple of astonishment through British newsrooms and beyond.
No one had predicted that Aleksandr and Evgeny Lebedev, the father-and-son Russians who own the paper — given away to 
The Lebedevs astonished us further, 
More stupefaction was to follow. Mr. Osborne immediately made it clear that he would not be giving up his job as member of Parliament for Tatton, a constituency nearly 200 miles northwest of London. His logic was impeccable: An evening paper is on the streets by lunchtime, so it would, he considered, be an easy matter to start the day at 5 a.m. and edit the paper in the morning before turning to affairs of state in the afternoon.
But then, journalists on other papers started counting up his various jobs. They arrived at a total of six.
In addition to being a Conservative member of Parliament and newspaper editor, he pockets nearly $800,000 as an adviser to BlackRock, one of the world’s largest money managers. He 
That’s around $2 million in part-time jobs, before counting his parliamentary or editorial salaries. He is the chairman, too, of the Northern Powerhouse Partnership, a body that promotes economic growth in the North of England. One journalist, trying to absorb the implications of the announcement, 
Or normal for 2017.
If Mr. Osborne anticipated any difficulty in meeting the demands of these multiple roles simultaneously, he did not betray it. In his mind, one supposes, he does not think of editing a newspaper as a very complex undertaking, not like being a brain surgeon or a nuclear physicist.
Nor 
The same blurred boundaries will apply to his membership of the 1922 Committee, the group of senior Conservative members of Parliament who meet weekly when the House of Commons is in session. The private meetings take place around 5 p.m., which will give Mr. Osborne 12 hours to forget all he has heard before turning up to edit the work of his political correspondents doing their best to discover the things he knows but, presumably, won’t tell them.
On important votes in Parliament, members are often subject to a “three-line whip,” a forceful instruction by party managers on how to vote. Can Mr. Osborne, who campaigned for the Remain side in last year’s Brexit referendum, editorialize one way and vote the other?
What about the new editor’s fiduciary duties to BlackRock, or the companies in which it 
Mr. Osborne will surely soon discover that journalists and politicians are on different sides of the barricades. Journalists are, by instinct, inclination and deed, outsiders. Politicians, particularly when their party is in government, are almost by definition insiders.
Maybe this is to be too gloomy about Mr. Osborne’s choice of a sixth concurrent career. What does it say that someone who was once the second- or third-most powerful politician in the land decides that newspaper journalism is his future? Has Mr. Osborne not been reading the obituaries for the trade he is about to join?
One person who could understand his motivation was the Times columnist Matthew Parris, who chose journalism over politics after a brief spell as a Conservative member of Parliament in the 1980s. To him, Mr. Osborne’s choice was not so much about the strength of journalism in 2017 as the weakness of politics.
“The Commons is moribund,” he wrote. “It is therefore the most grotesque of ironies that the former chancellor is finding it necessary, without leaving Parliament or the political party to which he and I belong, to look beyond party and Parliament if he is to stay involved in the democratic process.”
So, well and good — and, in its way, encouraging to journalists who have grown used to being told that print journalism is dying on its feet. But what does Mr. Osborne imagine editing a newspaper involves, that he can compress it into a morning’s work? I edited The Guardian for 20 years. I found it quite a demanding job.
The Spectator’s editor, Fraser Nelson, was skeptical about whether any modern newspaper editor can possibly do the job on a morning-only basis. Noting that the business model of the Lebedevs’ paper is “now in free-fall,” he asked, “how will The Standard survive in a world where print advertising has dried up? As an editor, he’ll need an answer.”
The bigger problem is one of perception. Very many people evidently believe in the malign notion of a metropolitan elite: a small sliver of society that went to the same schools and universities, and intermarries, gossips and dines together. As recent political earthquakes in Britain and America show, such people do not believe the members of this elite are on their side or have their interests at heart.
Trust in the American news media, 
The sight of a recent government minister — who, as chancellor, presided over extremely 
Nor does it look good for journalism. It would be better for both if Mr. Osborne made a clean break from politics and became a great crusading editor on behalf of the people.
Now, that would not be normal.