
LONDON — From Sept. 23 to 27, the Labour Party held its annual conference in Brighton, England, believing it had the wind at its back. The Tories are in disarray over Brexit. Prime Minister Theresa May is mortally sick of self-inflicted wounds, and either way her likely successor — Boris Johnson or Jacob Rees-Mogg — will be a buffoon.
Labour’s leader, Jeremy Corbyn, was until recently disparaged by doubters in his own party as yesterday’s man, but is now revered by them for the same reason — yesterday being the nearest modern Britain can get to tomorrow. And so the songs rang out in Brighton, the banners flapped, and Labour marched ever backward to the Shelley-inspired slogan “For the many, not the few.”
But there is a fly in the ointment: anti-Semitism. How Labour changed roles with the Conservatives as the enemy of the Jews is a tale that cannot be told briefly, but like some of Mr. Corbyn’s closest advisers, it goes all the way back to Stalin.
Cognizant of the criticism, though never really believing it, Mr. Corbyn staged his own inquiry a year ago. It was a brief and shoddy shuffling of superficies by Sharmishta Chakrabarti, former director of the human rights group Liberty. Ms. Chakrabarti’s 
She noted the “occasional toxic atmosphere” in the party and recommended cutting out analogies with Hitler and the Nazis when discussing Israel. Not stop thinking Nazi, just stop saying it. And that more or less was that. In response to continuing criticism by Jews, Mr. Corbyn elevated Ms. Chakrabarti to the peerage.
At the Labour Conference just concluded there was no sign, as the fringe moved ever closer to the center, that even Ms. Chakrabarti’s modest advice as to Hitler and the Nazis had been heeded. There were calls for some Jewish groups to be 
By way of a sop to critics, a 
If the arguments were old, the prospect of power lent them fresh urgency. In a moment that will live in infamy, the distinguished film director Ken Loach defended questioning the Holocaust. “I think history is for all of us to discuss,” he 
George Eliot wrote an essay about the condition of Jews in the late 19th century, titled “The Modern Hep! Hep! Hep!,” a reference to the cry of the Crusaders as they swept through Europe annihilating every Jewish community in their path. Hep stood for “Hierosolyma Est Perdita” — Jerusalem is destroyed. Hep! Hep! Hep!
When an avenging army takes to the road there will be no check on the exhilaration of its righteousness and slaughter. Labour Party delegates are hardly crusaders, but the whiff of blood lust rises even from Brighton.
To this Mr. Corbyn and those closest to him are tetchily indifferent. Mr. Corbyn goes out of his way not to use the word “anti-Semitism,” and when he is forced into condemnation of it he invokes the platitude that Labour opposes all racism and discrimination. The “all” is important. Burying anti-Semitism among offenses such as bullying and sexual harassment is a dodge to equalize things that are not equal and in the process ensure that anti-Semitism is rarely privileged with a mention of its own.
There is method in this evasiveness. To implicitly deny the existence of anti-Semitism — as some continue to deny the Holocaust — is to render it as a sick fantasy of the Jews’ own making, a pathology whose function is to blunt the edge of the anti-Zionist critique. That Jews invoke anti-Semitism primarily to silence critics of Israel is a tired canard, but it continues to be pressed in to service. It serves a purpose: It libels the Jews as liars in the act of protesting innocence of any such offense. And if anti-Semitism is a chimera, then anti-Zionism, so often conflated with it, has nothing after all to apologize for.
Desperate to win any sort of concession from Labour, Jews have settled for a phony peace. You desist from overtly anti-Semitic discourse — invoking the malignancy of our appearance and ambitions — and we will allow you your anti-Zionism. But the deal is beginning to unravel as it was always bound to. For the truth is you cannot keep the Jews out of Zionism.
A willful historical ignorance sustains anti-Zionism. In some accounts the Israelis drop out of a clear blue sky in 1967 and occupy the West Bank; in others, Zionism is a recent ideology always contested within Jewish society itself. What is elided is the 2,000-year history of Jews returning to the country from which they had been exiled, whether in response to longings for a homeland, to pray where they had once prayed, or to find a place of safety.
In 1862, the socialist Moses Hess, collaborator of Karl Marx, published “Rome and Jerusalem,” an argument for the Jews — since all other attempts to live free of persecution had failed — to return to that “inalienable ancestral homeland” toward which they’d been directing their gaze for millenniums. “No modern people which strives for a fatherland of its own,” Hess continued, “can deny the Jew his, without committing moral suicide.”
Zionism was thus, in a phrase of Simon Schama’s, a long-gestating movement for “regenerative transformation” — more spiritual than political, and not at all the imperialist adventure that anti-Zionists accuse it of being. A grand ambition, bound to lose its shine when it declined into the banal and sometimes cruel exigencies of statehood, but can we hate a thing in retrospect because we don’t like what it became? And if we do hate it, where is our understanding of the desperation that made it necessary?
What needs to be insisted on is that Zionism — the idea not the political events to which it has given rise — is integral to the Jewish mind and imagination. Those who say they are against Zionism but not Jews are speaking in riddles. It is not the Jew who needs to see himself apart from anti-Zionism; it is the anti-Zionist who needs to ask himself what feeds his fervor and whether, in his righteous rage, he is committing what Moses Hess called “moral suicide.” Until then the Labour Party’s slogan will go on reading, “For the many, not the Jew.”