
LONDON — The Labour Party is surging in British polls. That’s after a June general election in which it unexpectedly won a remarkable 40 percent of the vote under the leadership of the much-derided Jeremy Corbyn. Young and previously disengaged voters were galvanized by a left-wing policy platform that pledged to deal with the wealth inequalities and economic hardships that affect so many people today.
You could say Labour has tugged the national political map to the left. But now, this progressive spirit may be checked by Britain’s referendum decision last year to leave the European Union — in particular, to the extent that the Brexit vote was motivated by hostility to immigration. According to a recent 
The challenge for the Labour Party is to devise a policy that honors Brexit voters’ decision but doesn’t dishonor its own values. That’s an especially tough circle to square when it comes to immigration. During the recent general election campaign, Labour conceded that the right to free movement within the European Union for member-state citizens would end post-Brexit. But the party leadership also championed migrants’ vital contributions to Britain, while promising to scrap the “bogus immigration targets” that have been set by the Conservative government and to guarantee the rights of European Union citizens living in Britain.
This balancing act seemed to work for Labour’s alliance of Leave and Remain voters, consolidating support. But it involves delicate positioning.
That much was made clear last month when Mr. Corbyn said in 
In sectors where migrants are used to drive down wages and destroy conditions, this is through a European Union initiative called the Posted Workers Directive, which 
It’s easy to see why Labour is choosing to focus on this aspect of immigration: Attacking exploitative bosses is a fit with the party’s framing of wider economic injustice. It’s also understandable why supporters cut Mr. Corbyn some slack on the issue. The veteran left-winger and his allies now in leadership positions have a yearslong record of campaigning on immigrants’ rights — even as previous Labour Party leaders seemingly competed with the Conservatives over who was “tougher” on immigration. That tradition of Labour’s triangulating on the issue was 
Some sections of the party are still urging Mr. Corbyn to harden his stance on the issue to appease the party’s traditional working-class base — which, according to this analysis, is never as ethnically diverse as, in actual fact, it is. Nevertheless, Labour will need to show how removing from millions of people the right to move and work freely across the European Union is a progressive policy.
This is not impossible. Arguably, free movement of labor has made migration harder for those outside the European Union, whereas a Labour Brexit policy could equalize the criteria for all. But this approach might go awry if the European Union makes preferential trade access for Britain contingent on preferential treatment of migrants from within the union. Plus, of course, Labour would still have to sell the policy to a public that wants more immigration controls. So we’re back to where we started.
And that’s the squeeze Labour is in. It faces a hostile national mood on immigration that has taken hold over decades and has many causes. The country’s inability to process its imperial past is compounded by constant migrant-bashing from the media and politicians. In 2008, an economic crash largely brought about by unfettered finance capitalism plunged people into nearly a decade of precarious work with low wages and minimal protections. That created a fertile breeding ground for the anti-immigrant rhetoric of the far right. And Brexit, stoked by a nationalist campaign that demonized migrants, fostered a climate in which 
The solution for Labour must be to be as bold in its desire to shift the migration narrative as it has been to move the national debate on economic issues. If the party is riding a progressive wave, there is an opportunity to bring more of the public on board — including people worried about immigration.
To an extent, this is already happening. Immigration was the dog that didn’t bark in the recent general election. Recent polls of the British public’s 
With policies like the nationalization of rail and energy companies, a higher minimum wage and higher taxes on the top 5 percent of earners, the Labour Party succeeded in recapturing some voters who had been won over by the pro-Brexit, anti-immigrant U.K. Independence Party. Thousands of Labour campaigners, enthused by the Corbyn leadership, engaged in doorstep discussions that destigmatized migrants by shifting blame for people’s hardships onto a more deserving target: the government.
Of course, racism is an animating force of its own. Bigotry is not tied to economic fortunes, and some will always resent hearing languages other than English spoken on their street. But those who hold such sentiments are a minority and not likely to support progressive parties, in any case. So it makes no sense for Labour to formulate its strategy with this cohort in mind.
Along with Britain’s labor unions, the Labour Party could work to promote the solidarity that already exists between British and non-British workers by drawing attention to recent 
Most crucial in a hostile climate, the party’s language should stick with its manifesto promise that Labour “will not scapegoat migrants nor blame them for economic failures” — and sound less like Mr. Corbyn’s recent comments about foreign workers. Even optimistic experts agree that on the issue of immigration, long-incubated antipathies take time to change. But if it is possible to shift the mood on this, it is surely within the power of Labour’s current leadership, with its populist left-wing platform and an army of enthusiastic, progressive and campaign-ready supporters.