
Some think the country should be like Norway, outside the E.U. but tightly bound to the bloc’s high social and economic standards. Others want the country to break free, cut taxes and regulations and transform itself into a European version of Singapore.
The stakes are high for Britain’s economy. Brexit plans have already prompted 
Theresa May, above, is expected to address the House of Commons on Monday over new trade deals.
_____
In rare words of praise for the C.I.A., Mr. Putin said the agency had provided information that “helped detain terrorists planning explosions.”
Meanwhile, in Washington, a lawyer for Mr. Trump accused Robert Mueller, the special counsel looking into Russian interference in U.S. elections, of 
Above, Mr. Putin and Mr. Trump at a summit in Vietnam, in November.
_____
Passengers from around the world were stranded at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport after a 
Expect snarls to ripple through the air traffic system.
_____
One fighter pilot told us about a strange encounter in 2004 with a whitish, oval U.F.O. that “accelerated like nothing I’ve ever seen,” and left him “pretty weirded out.”
In less surprising political news, President Trump expects to sign the Republican tax bill this week. He has called it a Christmas present for the entire nation, but the fine print reveals 
_____
The Australian federal police said Chan Han Choi, a naturalized citizen living in Sydney, had been arrested on charges of trying to 
North Korea has been accelerating its nuclear and missile tests. 
Last week, Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson 
_____
These are 
The purchase of Chateau Louis XIV “is a severe blow to that image,” one analyst said. [
The film’s stars — including, above, Daisy Ridley, Adam Driver and Mark Hamill — recently discussed 
On Dec. 18, 1941, less than two weeks after the attack on Pearl Harbor, the Sunday editor for The Times sent a memo to the publisher, Arthur Hays Sulzberger.
It said: “We ought to proceed with the puzzle, especially in view of the fact it is possible there will now be bleak blackout hours — or if not that then certainly a need for relaxation of some kind or other.”
That’s how a time of national grief helped lead to one of The Times’s most joyful and beloved features. The crossword puzzle debuted some two months later as a weekly feature in the Sunday magazine.
The editor at the time, Margaret Farrar, followed a simple rule: good manners. She refused to allow unpleasant or impolite language — a rule that’s still followed by The Times’s current crossword editor, 
Nowadays, we like to think of 
But The Times didn’t always hold crosswords in high regard. In 1924, a 
Crossword solvers, the column claimed, “get nothing out of it except a primitive sort of mental exercise.”
Many of us would disagree.