
BERLIN — Compared with Donald Trump’s victory, the Brexit vote or even Marine Le Pen’s presidential bid in France, the results of Germany’s Sept. 24 election will be reassuringly boring. Chancellor Angela Merkel looks poised to continue her 12-year tenure. In the latest polls, her center-right Christian Democratic Union party leads with some 36 percent of the vote — far ahead of its closest challenger, the Social Democrats.
The biggest shock is likely to be when Alternative for Germany becomes the first ultranationalist party to enter Germany’s Parliament since the 1950s.
This is troubling enough. Alternative for Germany is a party of racists, climate-change deniers and demagogues who believe that Germany should stop atoning for its Nazi past. Its politicians have 
With the party getting 8 percent to 12 percent support in polls, the German far right appears far more contained than its counterparts in neighboring 
Since its founding in 2013, Alternative for Germany has managed to enter 13 of 16 state parliaments. Every major party has lost votes to it. In the state election of Baden-Württemberg in 2016, for example, Alternative for Germany took 190,000 votes from the Christian Democrats, while in Saxony-Anhalt 10 percent of its support came from the left-wing party Die Linke (the Left). Even as Germany has seen a sizable drop in voter turnout in recent decades, the far-right party has managed to mobilize a huge number of previous nonvoters.
In an attempt to contain the party, the government and leading opposition parties have appealed to anti-immigrant sentiment, allowing Alternative for Germany’s ideology to insidiously shape German politics and media. This swing was on full display in a televised debate earlier this month when 
The moderators — 
Alternative for Germany was present that night despite its absence from the stage.
This may seem surprising for those who have come to see Germany as a haven for refugees and Ms. Merkel as the benevolent overseer of a “Willkommenskultur,” taking 
But it wasn’t long until Ms. Merkel’s Willkommenskultur was replaced by a culture of deportation, thanks in part to the threat of the far right. In 2015, Alternative for Germany turned from a predominantly anti-European Union stance to an anti-immigration one. That September it reached a high of 
In December 2015, 
In March 2016, Germany 
Major German parties have leaned so far to the right ahead of this election that Alternative for Germany politicians have even criticized their opponents for copying them. When the Social Democrats 
It was not an Alternative for Germany politician but Christian Lindner, the leader of the pro-corporate, neoliberal Free Democratic Party, who this month gave an interview to the tabloid Bild that ran under the headline 
Even the left-wing parties have been infected.
The Green Party, long famous for its aversion to the police, is now 
Among the six main parties, Die Linke has upheld the most tolerant refugee policies. The party says it wants deportations to decline and seeks a “right to stay for everyone.” But its rhetoric hasn’t always been so tolerant. 
This is no accident. Die Linke has been hemorrhaging voters to Alternative for Germany, especially in eastern Germany, where both unemployment and resentment of the political elite is much higher.
In January, in the eastern city of Dresden, Björn Höcke, the leader of the Alternative for Germany’s chapter in the state of Thuringia, 
As the party’s leader Alice Weidel put it, Alternative for Germany wants to throw political correctness “in the ash heap of history.” The discourse ahead of this months’ election suggests that the fire is already well stoked.
Before each election, the Federal Center for Civic Education 