
A few years ago, Robert Plant found himself suddenly overcome with an urge to return to his roots. “I know I’m emphatically British,” he said. “But I didn’t realize how much that was true until I’d been away for a while.”
He had been living in Austin, Tex., with his girlfriend at the time, the singer-songwriter Patty Griffin, who was also his bandmate on his 2010 album and tour, 
The process began several years earlier, when he teamed with the bluegrass great Alison Kraus for the Nashville-recorded 2007 album 
“It was one of the most rewarding, classic periods of my life,” he said. “And it was just such a” — he paused to search for the right word — “
Mr. Plant was calling from the lobby of the Frome Memorial Theater in Somerset, England, which was built just after the First World War and is within easy driving distance of his house in Shropshire, near the Welsh border. Since returning from the United States, he has lived, as he put it, “only eight miles from where I learned how to speak French and do geometry.” Affable and chatty, he cheerfully recounted tales from his past lives: as the golden-maned, howling frontman of Led Zeppelin; in partnership with the Zeppelin guitarist Jimmy Page as Page and Plant; a foray into ’80s synth-rock; and the rootsy solo path he has forged over the last two decades.
On the theater stage, his band the Sensational Space Shifters — an eclectic crew of British musicians, several of whom he’s worked with on and off since the mid-2000s — was running through a mix of solo material and reconfigured Led Zeppelin classics. The group was deep in rehearsals for a tour behind Mr. Plant’s latest album, “Carry Fire,” out on Friday: a swirling mix of deep blues, mountain music, North African rhythms and Zeppelin-heavy weight.
“Some people don’t get it,” said Justin Adams, one of the band’s two guitarists, and a specialist in Middle Eastern and African sounds. “Why are you interested in the blues 
In Shropshire, Mr. Plant is part of the tapestry, the same way Bruce Springsteen maintains anonymity in his slice of New Jersey. He said his decision to return wasn’t connected to his relationship with Ms. Griffin, “It was my own inability to deal with the rabid attention that was paid to me — and there was kind of no way to hide it.”
So he returned to the land of his birth, gathered up the band and got back to work, first with the 2014 album 
“We chop the stuff up and see how it falls into grooves and moods,” Mr. Plant said. “That’s basically the whole signature of our music: grooves and moods.” As the tracks cohere into songs, he mines a notebook he’s scribbled in for years for lyrics: “I have a 
The result is a heady, autumnal record, blending Mr. Plant’s early influences (the folk musicians Bert Jansch and John Fahey), blues-fueled riffs, Berber sounds and Bristol trip-hop sonics. Many of the songs, including the title track, are love ballads tinged with fables. In contrast, “Carving Up the World Again … A Wall Not a Fence” is a Sun Records-ish stomper spiked with a curling, Middle Eastern guitar solo that delves into post-“Brexit” and President Trump discourse. Taking part of its title from a quote by Mr. Trump, Mr. Plant takes aim at jingoism and the refugee crisis. “There’s progress in many areas of humanity, but it’s juxtaposed with doors slamming and pain,” he said.
The sole cover, of an old rockabilly tune called “Bluebirds Over the Mountain,” gets new energy from a fractured electronic beat and the twinned vocals of Mr. Plant and the Pretenders’ Chrissie Hynde.
Mr. Plant is delighted that there’s still an audience for his music and a major record label, Nonesuch, invested in releasing it into the world. But that’s about as much thought as he puts into who might be out there listening. He emphatically does not delve into Spotify data to learn more. “No, I don’t give a hoot,” he says. “I couldn’t even think about it. I don’t think I write to suit anybody — I just write to suit my mood.”
As for his old band, Mr. Plant said he sees Mr. Page and the bassist John Paul Jones “from time to time, and it’s very civil.” The three were thrown back together in 2016 during a high-profile copyright lawsuit over the song “Stairway to Heaven,” which the band won, but Mr. Plant doesn’t seem eager to relive that: “We’re enthusiastic toward each other, and each of us does our own things, and that’s how it is.”
When Led Zeppelin ended in 1980, Mr. Plant set out to live a more human-scale life. To the public annoyance of his old bandmates, he’s been emphatic about not reviving the band for a full-scale tour, and when asked about it he tends to make an artistic argument about wanting to resist nostalgia. (Fans of “Raising Sand” have more reason to hope: “Alison and I talk about it all the time.”) But there might be another, simpler, reason — maybe there just isn’t any payday, no matter how vast, worth more than his carefully cultivated life?
“Yeah, that’s true,” he said. “I know where it’s at for me. I’m in an incredibly good place. For a guy like me, who was a singer in band, who played no instrument — but just being eager to learn and experience more and more music? I’ve just been incredibly fortunate. I’m in the middle of my own joy. I don’t need anything else.”