
WASHINGTON — After his November election, President Trump and his strategists foresaw the beginning of a populist wave washing over the developed world. But instead of being joined by like-minded counterparts across the Atlantic, Mr. Trump finds himself facing a European leadership that has repudiated his fiery brand of politics.
The decisive defeat in Sunday’s 
Mr. Trump called to congratulate President-elect Emmanuel Macron on Monday, a day after voters picked him by a 2-to-1 margin over Marine Le Pen, the far-right nationalist who had the American president’s implicit support. Mr. Trump emphasized his desire to cooperate on “shared challenges,” the White House said afterward, and the two leaders will meet for the first time on the sideline of a meeting of NATO leaders in Brussels on May 25.
But Mr. Trump will find more shared challenges than shared values as he encounters the new tandem of Mr. Macron and Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, both champions of the European project and skeptics of Russian adventurism. With Ms. Merkel in strong shape heading into an election this fall — and facing an opponent who, like her, supports the European Union — the French election was perhaps the last, best chance for Mr. Trump to secure a major ally this year through a populist electoral uprising.
Detailed maps of the French presidential election show how Emmanuel Macron decisively beat right-wing nationalist Marine Le Pen.
“The notion of a kind of ‘Internationale’ of the nationalists is no longer going to be viable at all,” Daniel Fried, a former assistant secretary of state for European affairs, said on a conference call organized by the Atlantic Council on Monday. “It changes the landscape in which Trump’s foreign policy will operate.”
Mr. Macron “now stands as a counterweight to Trump,” Mr. Fried added. The combination of a dominant, seasoned veteran like Ms. Merkel and a young, dynamic newcomer like Mr. Macron, he said, creates an “implicit challenge and perhaps an explicit challenge to the Trump ideology.”
It might be too much to say the French voted to reject Mr. Trump, given the many economic and security issues that confront France and defined the campaign, yet the larger trends he reflected were at stake. “I don’t think it’s a repudiation of Trump,” said Benjamin Haddad, a research fellow at the Hudson Institute in Washington. “I do think it’s a political answer to the challenge of populism.”
The French election followed contests in Austria, where 
Mr. Trump had assumed that his own election and Britain’s vote to leave the European Union were harbingers of other establishment dominoes that would fall. “He seemed so convinced coming in that ‘Brexit’ was just the beginning and other countries would be leaving,” said Karen Donfried, president of the German Marshall Fund of the United States. “Clearly, he’s got to correct that assessment.”
Ms. Le Pen had initially sought to capitalize on the momentum from Mr. Trump’s victory in November. She was among the first foreign leaders to congratulate him, and she made an unannounced but highly visible 
Mr. Macron, by contrast, 
But Mr. Macron also showed restraint in the final stage of his campaign. For his debate with Ms. Le Pen, his campaign team prepared talking points with plenty of attack lines tying her to Mr. Trump, according to an adviser to Mr. Macron, who asked for anonymity to discuss internal deliberations. Mr. Macron disregarded them. “Instead of scoring cheap points, he went for the more prudent and anticipatory attitude,” the adviser said. “He didn’t want to jeopardize the relationship just for a punch line.”
For his part, Mr. Trump made little secret of his preference in the French contest. After a 
“Another terrorist attack in Paris,” 
In case anyone doubted whom he was referring to, Mr. Trump mentioned Ms. Le Pen in a subsequent interview. “I think that it’ll probably help her because she is the strongest on borders and she is the strongest on what’s been going on in France,” 
But once the vote was in, he too put aside the election. “Congratulations to Emmanuel Macron on his big win today as the next President of France,” 
One area where Mr. Trump and Mr. Macron may clash is Russia. Mr. Trump has spoken flatteringly of President Vladimir V. Putin and vowed to improve Russian-American relations, but Mr. Macron has taken a tougher line. Mr. Putin hosted Ms. Le Pen in Moscow during the campaign in a virtual endorsement, and the Russian government is suspected in the hacking of the Macron campaign and the leak of documents, an episode that echoed last year’s Russian meddling in the American campaign.
Mr. Trump has made clear he thinks international relations are built in part on his personal chemistry with foreign leaders. If he can put aside his vitriolic attacks on China to forge what he now calls a strong relationship with President Xi Jinping, it seems plausible he could find common ground with Mr. Macron. He could focus on their similarities rather than their differences; neither had been elected before, and each ran against the establishments of the mainstream parties in their countries.
Besides, while Mr. Trump surely would have interpreted a victory by Ms. Le Pen as a validation of his own politics, she would 
Still, Mr. Macron, young, diffident and intellectual, is more often compared to President Barack Obama. “He’s sort of the antithesis of Donald Trump,” said Mark Leonard, director of the European Council on Foreign Relations. “He does share this odd thing of running as an outsider when he’s obviously an insider. But I don’t think they could be any further from each other in terms of their ideas, their philosophy.”