
“The Nutcracker” is ballet tradition, passed down from one generation to the next. “Yes, I was in it — Mouse, Hoop — everything, just like everybody else,” said George Balanchine in Nancy Reynolds’s “Repertory in Review: 40 Years of the New York City Ballet.”
His version at City Ballet, featuring more than 150 dancers and musicians, as well as two casts of students from the company-affiliated School of American Ballet, is grandly named “George Balanchine’s The Nutcracker.”
It’s not as if you could mistake his 1954 gem for anyone else’s. The children are both scrupulous and full of wide-eyed innocence. The Snowflake Waltz, with its onstage blizzard, is a choreographic wonder. And as for that glorious tree? It weighs one ton and grows from 12 to 40 feet. Back in the day, even as costs for his “Nutcracker” were skyrocketing, Balanchine wouldn’t budge: The ballet, he insisted, 
“Three flops in a row, up to your eyeballs in debt,” the character Ebenezer Scrooge taunts Charles Dickens, mired in writer’s block, as he stares at a sign promising his next story — a tale about Christmas — above an empty stand in a London bookstore window. “I’d think you’d be glad of some advice.”
Bharat Nalluri’s “The Man Who Invented Christmas,” opening Wednesday, Nov. 22, and adapted from 
Pair it this Thanksgiving weekend with the Steven Soderbergh-produced Western series, “
Perhaps the greatest disappointment of the Metropolitan Opera’s 2017-18 season was the company’s 
A star team of soloists — Krassimira Stoyanova, Ekaterina Semenchuk, Aleksandrs Antonenko, and Ferruccio Furlanetto — will join Levine and the Met orchestra and chorus in bringing to life the composer’s hyper-dramatic funeral mass, written to honor the death of the patriotic Italian novelist Alessandro Manzoni. 
It comes as a shock, in the final scene of 
The chance to spend time with them again is reason to celebrate the return of Lila Neugebauer‘s 
Last year — after a career playing the effervescent sidekick in “Extras,” “Ugly Betty” and “
Alas, a second season wasn’t to be. But Acorn’s programmers, bless ’em, are back on Ms. Jensen’s bandwagon with “
Anne Truitt’s otherworldly but deeply humane wooden monoliths are unmistakable demonstrations of the positive value of restraint. You can’t see every one of the 20 or so layers of paint that went into a piece like the nearly seven-foot tall, golden yellow “Summer Remembered,” but it shimmers distinctly with the artist’s focused concentration.
With the exception of three years in Tokyo in the late 1960s, Truitt (1921-2004) spent her working life in Washington, D.C. The National Gallery of Art’s sampling of sculptures and drawings that span most of Truitt’s career is an opportunity to see her work in exactly the light — and latitude — she made it for. 
Energy drinks aren’t for everyone, but you don’t need to consume them to enjoy the arts programming that Red Bull sponsors each year in cities around the world. For music fans, the company’s latest venture — 
The lineup this week is particularly strong, with performances by Noname, the lyricist behind last year’s acclaimed “Telefone” (Nov. 21 at Concord Music Hall); the promising Canadian crooner Daniel Caesar (Nov. 20 at Reggie’s Rock Club); and the thoughtful rapper Kweku Collins (Nov. 25 at Space), among others.
While tickets for many shows have sold out, it’s worth checking out the resale market for a chance to see these blazing young talents in action. 