
• Eight people were killed and 11 were injured in what Mayor Bill de Blasio called an “act of terror,” after a man 
Here’s 
The suspect, 
Among the victims were 
• 
• Donald Trump’s march to the Republican nomination last year left party leaders questioning whether he had the necessary foreign policy experience. He brought on a group of advisers, some of whom are now under legal scrutiny for possible links to Russia, 
Separately, we 
Our correspondents in Washington 
• 
• Two accidents between Navy destroyers and commercial vessels in the Pacific this year were the result of a string of crew member and navigational errors, 
A total of 17 sailors were killed aboard the destroyers Fitzgerald and John S. McCain.
• As companies prize big names, more employees could 
On Tuesday, the authorities said that 
Separately, 
In today’s show, we look at Robert Mueller’s Russia investigation, internet giants’ hearings on Capitol Hill and the terrorist attack in Manhattan.
Listen on 
In the debate over the Russia inquiry, broad agreement on the basic facts does not extend to Fox News and other major conservative outlets, 
In 
Since arriving on the island five days after Hurricane Maria struck, the award-winning Spanish-American chef José Andrés has served more meals there than any other organization, including the Red Cross and government agencies.
His effort shows how chef-led groups are creating 
A World Series champion will be crowned tonight after 
Hilde Lysiak’s experiences went viral last year when she broke a story about a homicide in her hometown. Now, 
Amber Ruffin, a correspondent on “Late Night,” 
“If there’s something to find, he’ll find it. If there’s nothing there, he’s not going to cook something up.”
Have you ever gotten a job without the qualifications?
It happened to Michelangelo, a sculptor by trade, who 
Commissioned by Pope Julius II, Michelangelo’s ceiling, about 130 feet long and 45 feet wide, took four years to paint. (You can 
Believing he was being set up to fail, Michelangelo was paranoid at the beginning and a physical wreck by the end, 
The centerpiece is the Creation of Adam, one of nine scenes from the biblical Book of Genesis.
The frescoes have required 
The work’s popularity is understandable. As the German writer Johann Wolfgang von Goethe noted, “Without having seen the Sistine Chapel, one can form no appreciable idea of what one man is capable of achieving.”