
The route my father followed across Windsor, Ontario, to visit my grandmother on Sundays took us down Ypres Avenue. We passed near other streets with names that seemed unusual to me as a child, among them: Verdun, Lens, Somme and Arras avenues. Eventually, I learned that they were one of Canada’s many memorials to World War I.
Cycling trips to Europe and covering the Tour de France has given me the privilege of seeing those places with the names that once puzzled me.
In 2001, while near Verdun, I stayed in a hotel along the 
The centennial of World War I has more recently brought the Tour de France back to the sites of some of those famous battles. In 2014, the race traveled along a highway where the grass alongside had been replaced by pale blue cornflowers to evoke the jackets worn by French troops. Graveyards and memorials, many impossibly vast and all impeccably maintained, have been backdrops for the race. So have the forests that have grown out of the ground pockmarked with shells fired long ago. Unexploded ordnance make many of those forests off limits.
Last Saturday evening, I went down to the national war memorial in Ottawa to watch an overnight vigil to a battle, which, over the last century, has become particularly important to Canadians: the Battle of Vimy Ridge. It was the first in World War I in which the country’s troops fought solely as Canadians. They overran a German line that had defied attacks by French and British forces.
As
It is a stark contrast to the United States. Commemorations of the centennial of America’s
We’d like to know your thoughts about why memories of World War I remain so strong in Canada 100 years later. Email us at 
Last Sunday, when I returned to the vigil at 1 a.m., the crowd was long gone except for a photographer with a tripod and the occasional passers-by from the bars nearby. But the nearly 3,600 electric candles placed there were still lit and rotating shifts of army cadets were carrying out the memorial in the chilly night air.
Our request for family lore about the 
Among other things, provinces will have to figure out how to distribute it and which shops will sell it, and the police will need to develop tests for apprehending impaired drivers that are reliable enough to avoid court challenges. Officials said repeatedly that their chief objective was to take the trade in marijuana away from organized crime. At the same time, the government also acknowledged widespread concern from much of the medical community about the safety of marijuana, particularly for people younger than 25. Sorting out the details of a system will be a sometimes delicate balancing act, particularly between public health needs and the ambitions of the businesses that hope to prosper as growers.
Here are some other articles from The Times over the last week, not necessarily related to Canada and perhaps overlooked, that I found interesting:
— As anyone who has been there in recent years can attest, London has become a global crossroads. Sarah Lyall 
— Unhappy about an ice ax, Mary Anderson and her husband went on to 
— Three floors underground and next to The New York Times’s headquarters is 
— Radhika Jones 