
Kraft Heinz’s 
The short life span of the deal can be blamed in large part on national barriers — which are likely to rise even further as a new mercantilism emerges.
Kraft Heinz is controlled by the crafty Brazilian deal makers of 3G Capital. There’s no doubt the company and its advisers were well aware that it would be forced to come out with a public statement if word of its approach to Unilever got out.
And that’s exactly what happened after The Financial Times Alphaville blog 
If this had involved only American companies, probably nothing would have happened, as the companies could just decline to comment.
In Britain, however, where shares of Unilever trade, it’s different. The regulator of takeovers in Britain forces companies to announce the status of any acquisition as soon as rumors start. The idea is to ensure that the market has any notice of potential deal talks.
The London market has long been known for deal leaks from bankers and other advisers and subsequent forced announcements. I practiced as a takeover lawyer in London for years, and one of the first documents lawyers produced when talks began was a potential leak announcement in anticipation of the inevitable leak.
The premature exposure of the offer is not primarily what caused its collapse. Kraft Heinz would have been prepared for that. But it might not have expected the fierce blowback that followed news of the offer.
For one thing, Unilever came out immediately and said not just no — but never.
Writing responses to unsolicited approaches is an art. If a target company is willing to eventually contemplate a bid, the language it will use typically describes the offer price as grossly inadequate and the like.
But Unilever’s response went further. The company said the Kraft Heinz bid had “no merit, either financial or strategic, for Unilever’s shareholders,” and that accordingly there was no “basis for any further discussions.”
If Unilever wanted to haggle only on price it would have left out the part about “strategic” merit, which was simply another way of saying that the two were just not a good fit under any circumstances.
Unilever’s harsh response alone should not have been enough to send Kraft Heinz away. Unilever is a rare beast of a corporation: It is actually two corporations, known as a dual-listed company.
Unilever was formed in 1929, when the British Lever Brothers company and the Dutch Margarine Unie decided to amalgamate. But they didn’t actually combine, instead entering into contractual arrangements that made them effectively one company.
Yet Unilever is technically two public companies: Unilever P.L.C., a British company listed on the London Stock Exchange and Unilever N.V., a Dutch company listed on the Amsterdam Stock Exchange. Both companies are also listed on the New York Stock Exchange for good measure.
The two separate companies have entered into a series of complex contractual arrangements that allow for shareholders of each to be treated the same for all purposes, including takeovers and dividends. The reason for this byzantine structure is taxes. The dual listing allows the shareholders in each country to invest directly in a domestic company and receive domestic tax treatment on their shares.
Kraft Heinz would have to take over both companies in an acquisition. Britain, which prohibits the use of merger defenses like the poison pill, would have been an easier country in which to mount a hostile takeover than the Netherlands, which allows such defenses.
In the Netherlands, Unilever would have had to argue the merits of rejecting the offer. Given a sluggish stock price, it might have a hard time justifying its decision to shareholders, even though Dutch law allows the board to reject a takeover on strategic grounds or if it hurts other stakeholders, like employees.
Still, the legal hurdles in the two countries would not have been high enough to thwart Kraft Heinz. But the political hurdles were more threatening.
Unilever is one of the biggest companies on the London stock market, and British nationalism appears to be on the rise since Britons voted in June to leave the European Union.
Kraft’s recent history in Britain would also be likely to fan nationalist pride. Much bitterness remains over the company’s $19 billion takeover of the British chocolate-maker Cadbury after it was accused of breaking promises to keep Cadbury factories open.
Then there is the Netherlands, where 
This failed deal is just the first of many that will be tested in a new age of mercantilism. Countries that once hailed the merits of globalization and the free flow of capital and labor are now becoming much more protective of their big domestic companies, or what the French refer to as their “national champions.”
Imagine what the response of President Trump would be if Apple or Google ever became a takeover target. Nationalism would be sure to prevail over any suspicion that Silicon Valley is not a friend of the president.
Without any sign that Unilever might come around to accept an offer, Kraft Heinz probably did the math and realized it could never navigate the politics. A hostile takeover effort could have meant a scorched-earth political and public relations campaign that would most likely have damaged its brand.
So Kraft Heinz had no choice but to fold. Under British rules, the company must now wait another six months before bidding again for Unilever. But I think one can assume that there will be no subsequent bid.
Both companies are back to the drawing boards. Kraft Heinz will do the math on other targets where it can create value by cutting costs and increasing margins. Unilever, meanwhile, will also be looking for a strategic move to spur growth. This could mean spinning off its food business.
It is uncertain what the next steps will be for Kraft Heinz and Unilever, but their brief encounter is a clear warning sign for international deals to come. As countries become more protective of borders and their national interests, it will become harder for giant corporations to stretch across those borders without fear of a political backlash.
While there is an argument to be made to limit the creation of these behemoths since they have too much power, cutting them off for nationalistic purposes is troublesome. It will lead to more inefficient national champions, protected by their countries. Unilever was Exhibit A — a sluggish giant in need of some slimming and efficiency.
This type of protectionism has not worked well in countries like France, where Danone, the yogurt maker, has been protected as a national champion and slow growth has been the norm. It probably won’t work well elsewhere.
But the problem is likely only to get worse. A new age of political protectionism has become the latest quandary for large corporations.