
LONDON — A spreadsheet began to circulate last week among journalists covering Britain’s Parliament, matching up the names of three dozen Conservative Party officials with brief descriptions of misconduct.
The unsubstantiated allegations, collected by Conservative Party researchers, ranged from the routine — “handsy at parties,” “perpetually intoxicated” — to the unconventional: “Video exists of three men urinating on him”; “likes to have intercourse with men who are wearing women’s perfume”; and “paid a female to be quiet.”
A dam-burst of accusations has engulfed Westminster over the last 10 days, released by the revelations about the sexual misconduct of the Hollywood power broker Harvey Weinstein.
Complaints about leading political figures have accumulated for years, in part because of the power asymmetry within the halls of Parliament. Young staff members who surround British lawmakers have no independent personnel body to appeal to if they have complaints. Instead, they are told to inform party whips, in-house disciplinarians who were widely believed to stockpile compromising information for their own purposes. Newspapers, for their part, have often sat on reports of abuse rather than risk libel claims.
This was the landscape that the journalist Jane Merrick surveyed 14 years ago, after a member of Parliament 
But the Weinstein exposé and its aftermath have unsettled the old system. Last Wednesday at 5:30 p.m., Ms. Merrick called the prime minister’s staff to report the 2003 episode. Ninety minutes later, the lawmaker — Michael Fallon, the defense secretary — stepped down, saying he had “behaved inappropriately in the past.”
“It’s exhausting, challenging something so powerful as a political establishment, that is self-protecting and self-preserving,” Ms. Merrick said. “To try to get a chink in that armor is so exhausting.”
On Tuesday, the crisis apparently encompassed a death: Carl Sargeant, who was dismissed as a minister in the Welsh government last week amid allegations of sexual misconduct, was found in his home, apparently a suicide. He had denied any wrongdoing.
The scandal has hit Prime Minister Theresa May at a difficult time, as she struggles to control warring factions in her party and break free from a deadlock in negotiations for Britain’s exit from the European Union, known as Brexit. On Monday, she promised to 
Hanging over Mrs. May’s head 
Mrs. May has also ordered a Cabinet Office inquiry into Mark Garnier, her international trade minister, who has acknowledged asking his assistant to buy sex toys. In all, about 
“Britain’s political class feels pretty fragile right now,” said Tom McTague, the chief Britain correspondent for Politico and author of “
“When something like this starts to get going, they just feel out of control,” he said. “The M.P.s don’t know where this is going. They don’t know how many allegations are going to come. They don’t know how to get on top of it.”
The episodes have unfolded against the peculiar structure of Britain’s Parliament: The 650 members of the House of Commons hire, employ and manage their staff personally, as if they were small-business owners.
Jess Phillips, 36, a Labour member of Parliament who worked with victims of sexual abuse before entering politics, recalled showing up on her first day in 2015 and asking a senior colleague where her employees should turn with workplace complaints.
“They said, ‘There is no place,’” she said. “I said, ‘Well, what if that was the case?’ I got a shrug in response. I see a lot of young women working here, around very powerful people, and I worry.”
Ms. Phillips began receiving calls from employees with complaints 10 days ago, she said, and has heard from one or two people every day since. Many of the complaints fall well short of a criminal threshold.
“The truth of the matter is, to me, the varying degrees didn’t matter,” she said. “There is a cultural problem where people are using their power for sexual gain, or to hold over women who work in here.”
Party whips, who historically served as a clearinghouse for complaints about officials’ behavior, were also responsible for protecting the party from damage — and for persuading or coercing the members of Parliament to get in line. According to political legend, past whips collected compromising information in a “black book,” to be used as leverage at some future point.
Tim Fortescue, who served as the Tory chief whip in the 1970s, 
“It might be debt, it might be a scandal involving small boys, or any kind of scandal,” he said. “We would do everything we can, because we would store up Brownie points. It’s a pretty nasty reason, but it’s one of the reasons. If we could get a chap out of trouble, they’d do as we ask forever.”
Over the weekend, the home secretary, Amber Rudd, herself a former whip, 
“I don’t recognize some of those more lurid stories that are told about the sort of things whips knew and did,” she said. “I just don’t recognize it.”
But Ms. Merrick, who last week brought forth her complaint from 2003, said she saw no recourse when Mr. Fallon, then a member of Parliament, tried to kiss her after a working lunch, leaving her feeling “so humiliated and so ashamed.”
One of the main reasons she said nothing, she said, was that she was “scared of the whips,” who, if displeased, could prevent her from getting any political news.
“This behavior is reported to whips all the time,” she said. “If there is a new system in place, the whips will still be able to collect information, but staff and journalists will be able to report it openly, rather than it becoming part of the game of snakes and ladders that the whips are controlling.”
On the night last week when Mr. Fallon stepped down, she said, there was no sense of triumph, but instead the sense that she had set right a 14-year-old error.
“These are M.P.s who have gone from public school to Oxford to Commons and have never been challenged, never been questioned,” she said. “I suppose it’s like a muscle that you’re trying to make work.”