
Then it hit me.
Isn’t their intense opposition to Amazon’s arrival just another version of the nationalist populism of Pauline Hanson and Donald J. Trump?
What if the culture industry is for the intellectual left what factory jobs are for the populist right — a piece of the economy tied to identity and nostalgia that they just can’t help but want preserved and protected at all costs?
There are obviously differences between resistance to a large corporate behemoth like Amazon, and resistance to, say immigrants and refugees — big differences. But at some core human level, both are driven by fear of a future defined by outsiders, and a love for what is.
I recognized the emotions I heard talking to bookstore owners and writers because it reminded me of the emotions I heard talking to working-class Americans as they struggled through the global financial crisis and its aftermath. In both cases, many of the people I talked to started with jabs of outrage only to end with sighs and worry.
“I wish I was more optimistic,” said Suzy Wilson, the owner of Riverbend Books in Brisbane.
“What concerns me the most about the growing influence of corporations like Amazon is their worldview,” said Tim Winton, the author of “Cloudstreet” and many other well-known novels. “People who work in the book industry are agents of culture rather than just instruments of commerce.”
That pessimism and the demand for a society built to a more human scale and tied more closely to identity and agency crosses ideological and international borders.
It’s 
It’s Steve Bannon and Brexit, yes, but it may also be Emmanuel Macron and 
Whether populism is the right word for this is an open question, but whatever it is, it may be the “ism” of our time — a messy mishmash of human urges seeking a middle ground after the Cold War battle between capitalism and communism.
Maybe it’s just a function of change, and a lot of it.
A McKinsey Institute 
If that assessment is accurate, the urge to pull inward and protect your own — regardless of your professed politics — starts to make more sense.
Add to that the continued rise in influence of digital giants like Facebook, Google and Amazon (part of what our tech columnist has identified as “
Some countries (
Where do you think Australia will end up falling on the spectrum between nationalism and globalism?
And on a more personal note, where do you draw the line between openness to the world, and protection for the local?
I’m convinced there’s a lot to talk about with this subject, so tell me your thoughts at 
As always, we also hope you’ll share this newsletter if you have friends who might also be interested and encourage them to 
And now here are my picks of the week, a preview of our public event in Sydney this week with Joe Kahn, The New York Times’s managing editor, and a recommendation for another newsletter we enjoy.
____
In addition to my Amazon story, our coverage since last week’s newsletter included 
We also explored 
On the lighter side, yes, we covered those Queenslanders 
One more thing: be sure to check 
______
This 
The artful, intimate yet privacy-protecting images (including the one above) were shot by Adam Ferguson, the Aussie photographer responsible for our earlier 
And I’m happy to report that he’ll be back soon for more arresting work from Australia, so stay tuned.
______
______
Joseph Kahn, the managing editor of The Times, is here in Sydney this week, and you’re all invited to try and catch him in person or on the air.
He’ll be on ABC radio this afternoon, Thursday, around 4 p.m.
On Friday, he’ll present the 
On Monday at 3 p.m., he’ll be discussing the challenges of running a newsroom in an era of digital disruption and President Trump at a 
In between, he’ll be doing a mix of public and private discussions... and perhaps a bit of surfing.
______
There are also links to stories we might have missed in other outlets from all over the world, and of course, some provocative commentary from The Saturday Paper, including this 
He suggests that part of the reason is the Australian media — “large, right-wing heavy, thin on talent,” he writes — and because Australia still tends to “seek endorsement, or at least attention” from “any outsider who can stomach 22 hours on a plane.”
Agree or disagree, but sign up for 