
In the latest installment of our 
The 
It really filters into my work. Working women — lawyers, bankers — are a huge contingent of who I’m speaking to with the brand. There is a clear economic reason for it — they need clothes and they have the power to buy them — but also, when I was thinking about starting a brand, I was interested in how women age: their relationship with their bodies and their romantic lives. Forty or 50 years ago, when you were 60, you were not expected to be sexy or seductive. It was inappropriate to want that for yourself. That’s changed a lot. There is a move away from negating your femininity to expressing your style through clothing in the workplace while still feeling powerful or professional.
This is my first corner office. My old office was a bit of a fishbowl, smaller, with a glass wall. So I wanted a door, partly because I wanted to be able to have meetings and not have other people see into the office, and partly because sometimes I really like to be alone. I was watching an interview with Zadie Smith, and she talked about a comfort with being alone as a necessary attribute for a writer. I also find that for myself.
I didn’t want people to be boxed in. And we placed the design area at the front of the office so every person who comes in has to walk through it, because I think it’s important for salespeople and accounting people to see designs being worked on and to be reminded that this is what we do. The nature of this business is a bit of winner takes all, but when I started Altuzarra, I wanted to create a company where people wanted to come to work in the morning and felt like they were invested in its success.
It’s very different. My house is not this organized and certainly not this clean. I don’t have tchotchkes here because they’re all in my house. I’m a bit of a hoarder. I keep a lot of sentimental things: books that my grandmother gave me, or my mom and dad gave me, that have inscriptions. Family is really important to me. My parents are part of the company, and they were hugely supportive of me, even though they’re both bankers and starting a fashion company was probably not their idea of how they wanted to spend their later professional years. I speak to them every day or almost every day. And we spend holidays with them.
The chairs are my grandfather’s, from California. They were in his dining room, and have a tiger jacquard motif and are very, very ornate. I love them. They remind me of him. And I think they look bizarrely at home with this very stark architectural furniture. That tension is something that I explore in the collections — thinking about the pragmatic and utilitarian and the frivolous and decorated and how they go together.
Ultimately I’m very proud to be multicultural and to be able to draw from different parts of my life. It’s incredibly enriching. Race obviously is a hot topic right now, with Brexit and the election of Donald Trump and the rejection of globalization. In the last two years or so, I’ve become more aware of the political climate and my role as a designer. A lot of what I’ve been drawing is much more armored, and I think that’s also what I’m craving for myself. But I think that is what other people are feeling as well. So I hope that if I’m feeling I want things that are more covered, or more protective, that’s something other people will be feeling in six months.
I draw 98 percent by hand. I just started using an iPad pencil, which has actually been a revelation because I didn’t think I was going to like it, though I still feel much more comfortable on paper. I’m a very 2D person when I start to work. I draw everywhere. I draw on the plane. I draw in hotels.
Sometimes! I usually get up around 7, snooze between 7 and 7:15, take a shower, prepare the food for our dog. Then I take either the subway or a taxi downtown, get my coffee from Starbucks and come up here to my office. Then I do a lot of things that I won’t necessarily have time to do later in the day: read my emails, organize my thoughts, have a multigrain bagel with butter. The rest of the day is sort of dictated by whatever people need from me.
By having a personal life. I’m really lucky that my
Growing up, I really struggled with my identity: being Asian living in Paris, being gay and going to a school that was not very diverse. I was pretty shy and pretty quiet. When I first heard of Tom Ford, that was the first time I became aware of fashion as an industry and of a fashion person as a celebrity. He was gay, and he was so successful. He embodied so much of what I wanted to be and didn’t think was achievable. But he made me see fashion as something that I could be successful in. I obviously really loved it, but I saw it as an escape as well.
I met him at the 
I think it has, though differently than what I was expecting. But I’m a very, very happy person, and I feel very lucky, so yeah. To a certain degree, I think my dreams did come true.