
That is one of the many debated questions. Proponents of the Republicans’ plans argue that companies will invest the money. Opponents counter that firms will return the cash to investors in the form of buybacks and dividends.
Over at Bloomberg View, Tyler Cowen, a professor of economics at George Mason University, says he is no fan of the current plan but 
“When all variables are measured properly, it seems major companies are paying out to shareholders about 22 percent of their net income. It’s therefore unlikely that new profit, as might follow from lower corporate tax rates, will simply be drained out of the corporation.
“More generally, sending money back to investors doesn’t have to mean no new investment. What if those investors take the money and put it in a venture capital fund or invest it in some other manner? The whole point of capital markets is to recycle resources into the most profitable new opportunities, and that may or may not involve the companies that initially earned those profits.”
With 95 percent of S&P 500 companies having reported third-quarter results, earnings are on pace to grow 6.2 percent from a year earlier, according to FactSet. That’s up from the 3.1 percent growth rate expected at the end of period.
Technology companies drove much of the growth. The sector reported a 19.7 percent increase in earnings and was the biggest contributor to earnings growth rate. If the tech sector was excluded, the overall growth rate would fall to 2.8 percent from 6.2 percent.
Here are some more takeaways from earnings season:
• Profits at companies that generate more that 50 percent of their sales outside the United States, grew more than 13 percent in the third quarter. Earnings at firms that get a majority of their revenue from within the U.S., rose only 2.3 percent.
That is a reversal of what many analysts expected at the beginning of 2017. A stronger American dollar, a pickup in the United State’s economy, and the Trump administration’s policies were expected to benefit companies with the greatest exposure to United States were expected to benefit more from the Trump administration’s policies, and a stronger dollar. But the United States dollar remained weaker.
• The energy sector reported the largest increase in earnings of the S&P 500’s 11 sectors at 135 percent. The increase is a reflection of how hard the roughly two year slide in oil prices had hit the industry.
• 74 percent of companies have reported profits above analysts expectations, above the five-year average of 69 percent.
• Financial firms reported the biggest decline in profits, down 8.3 percent. That decline can largely be blamed on Hurricanes Harvey and Irma. Insurance companies in the sector reported 63 percent decrease in profits.
• 90 percent of the companies in the S&P 500’s technology sector exceeded analyst estimates.
Elon Musk is aiming to reinvent the trucking industry. The Tesla chief executive 
But as 
A traditional diesel truck can be operated for $1.51 a mile; the Tesla Semi, he said, beats that with $1.26.
But it gets better. Using convoys — Tesla Semis yoked together with connected Autopilot technology, operating like road-going trains, with one semi as the leader — Tesla’s cost drops to $0.85 a mile.
“This beats rail,” Musk said.
Warren Buffett, of course, has bet big on railroads. In November 2009, his Berkshire Hathaway bought Burlington Northern Santa Fe. It was, he said at the time, a bet on the United States economy as it rebounded from the financial crisis.
At Berkshire’s annual meeting this year, Mr. Buffett was asked about the threat autonomous technology posed to BNSF. Buffett said, 
The online retailer’s shares opened at $16.90, up 13 percent in its first day of trading.
The I.P.O. differs from the typical Silicon Valley start-up that hits the public markets. The company kept its valuation relatively low, and it has generated a profit two years in a row.
But also it differs in another way. It is run by a woman, Katrina Lake. As Recode’s Rani Molla writes, 
In fact, only 4.2 percent of all I.P.O.s in the United States were led by woman from 2000 to 2015. That compares to 6.4 percent of Fortune 500 companies run by a woman.
Let’s come out and say it: 
Comcast is in talks to buy assets like the Fox movie studio and the group’s stakes in the British broadcaster Sky and the Star India TV and digital businesses. Disney has been interested in those as well, and perhaps still is. Verizon was briefly interested, and may become interested again. 
The reasons are well known: The internet and newer players like Netflix have upended the media and telecom landscapes. Size and scale seem more important than ever. It’s the premise of the AT&T and Time Warner deal, which itself echoes Comcast buying NBCUniversal.
• Mr. Malone asserted that at least four big telecom companies — including Verizon, SoftBank (through Sprint) and Altice — had approached him about buying or partnering with Charter Communications, which he controls. (
• The BBC is considering buying full control of UKTV, its joint venture in ad-supported broadcasting with Scripps Networks Interactive, according to unidentified sources. (
Comments by the Justice Department’s antitrust chief, Makan Delrahim, suggest he’s skeptical of consolidation. In a speech yesterday, he 
Should the Justice Department sue, 
Across the industry, digital-media companies are finding that lines of business that caught fire for them early on — like creating custom content for brands — are becoming harder to scale up. Meanwhile, with each passing year, Google Inc. and Facebook Inc. are tightening their grip on the online-ad market.
• Axios has raised $20 million in new financing. (
The leak of 210,000 gallons in South Dakota came days before the Public Services Commission of Nebraska is to vote on a permit for the pipeline’s bigger sibling, Keystone XL.
From Steven Mufson and Chris Mooney of 
After his election, President Trump issued an executive order to clear obstacles for the Keystone XL, but TransCanada still needed a permit from the independent, five-person Nebraska PSC. Concerns there have revolved around potential harm to the state’s ecologically delicate Sandhills region and its vast Ogallala aquifer, prompting TransCanada to move the Nebraska segment further east.
After the Senate Finance Committee 
Among them: analyses that stubbornly find the 
• The Senate bill includes a break for private jets, lowering taxes on the payments made by their owners to the companies that manage them. (
• The rollback of the estate tax would affect a very small set of wealthy Americans — about 0.2 percent of the 2.6 million people who died last year left estates large enough to qualify. (
It’s 
What 
The goal is to hit the ground running in overhauling an agency that some Republicans have called corrupt and that GOP lawmakers widely blame for burdening lenders with unnecessary red tape. It could be months before Trump nominates a permanent C.F.P.B. director and the Senate confirms his selection.
The $1 trillion investor is talking about selling all of its holdings in oil companies. That’s likely to give the world’s biggest oil producer, which is working on an I.P.O., some heartburn.
Michael Webber of the University of Texas at Austin told Clifford Kraus of 
“The Norwegian view is that oil has had a good run and will have a good run for a couple of decades but it’s not the only future that is out there.”
If Norway didn’t invest in an Aramco I.P.O., China undoubtedly would. But Liam Denning of Bloomberg Gadfly offers a 
China knows that, as demand for oil declines in much of the developed world, ever more of Aramco’s barrels must flow east anyway. So the idea it will buy a big slug of Aramco at anything more than a discounted price — without some sort of sweetener in terms of a low-priced oil supply contract anyway — is a stretch.
It’s made by Tesla, of course. And it’s both battery-powered and almost entirely self-driving.
Tesla also introduced a new roadster. Neal Boudette of the NYT 
“The point of doing this is to give a hard-core smackdown to gasoline cars,” he said to a cheering crowd of more than 2,000 people. “You’ll be able to drive from Los Angeles to San Francisco and back.”
The online clothing seller priced its stock market debut at $15 a share, well below its expected range. Is that because while the company is profitable, Jeff Bezos could yet crush it?
It may be a symptom of a wider problem, 
The challenge that Stitch Fix faces is one that has burdened other start-ups like the food delivery service Blue Apron and the social networking phenomenon Snapchat: incumbent giants that have the money and the hunger to crush upstart rivals.
At least, according to 
• Now that Emerson has raised its offer for Rockwell Automation, the question is whether we’ll see a big hostile-takeover fight in the industrial sector. (
• Special legislation designed to shield Puerto Rico from its creditors during last year’s fiscal crisis may now be hampering its recovery from Hurricane Maria. (
• The Metropolitan Museum of Art has received a donation of more than $80 million from one of its trustees, Florence Irving, and the estate of her husband, Herbert Irving, a co-founder of the food services giant Sysco. (
• Harvard Business School topped Bloomberg Businessweek’s annual ranking of graduate business schools. But it’s Stanford Graduate School of Business whose MBA students are graduating to the highest salaries. (
• Bitcoin hit another record high just days after a plunge of as much as 29 percent. (
• Caesars Entertainment plans to buy two Indiana casinos in a $1.7 billion deal just weeks after finishing a large bankruptcy proceeding. (
• President Trump has been bad for the gun industry — Remington Outdoor and American Outdoor Brands have become unprofitable, while Sturm, Ruger & Company’s profit has been squeezed. (
• The E.U.’s top Brexit negotiator, Michel Barnier, believes that Britain’s only hope for a trade deal with the bloc is a Canada-style deal worse from an economic and trade standpoint than what it has now. (