
Last month, after Hurricane Irma rolled over Florida, the state’s commissioner of agriculture took in the damage to citrus crops and deemed it “
Through the whole late 20th century, “existential” floated through American conversation mostly as a kind of mush — a loose gesture in the general direction of a loosely grasped idea, something perhaps half-remembered from a film review or philosophy course, something about cigarette smoke and French intellectuals and the grim absurdity of constructing meaning in a universe totally indifferent to our presence. At the start of the ’60s, the Times critic John Leonard 
But citrus farmers and beef exporters are not, pretty obviously, reading Camus and struggling to create authentic modes of existence in an absurd vacuum of meaning; they are not pondering what it means to 
There are other ways to say this, but none seem as enjoyable. Calling something “a matter of life and death” sounds hysterical and alarmist; “existential threat” feels more solemn, gravely analytical, as if you’ve been poring over classified reports with world-weary experts. It is the verbal equivalent of a B-movie scientist somberly removing his glasses.
We say it with abandon now, in every context, about the continued existence of big things and the continued existence of small ones. Artificial intelligence, 
It was Sept. 11, 2001, that sent existential concerns slamming into American speech. But there was something new, something dissonant, in the way we began to use the word — a change meant to accommodate the idea that just 19 men might strike at a nation’s being. We’d been exposed to an event people found truly unimaginable, one that shifted their sense of the world and what seemed possible in it. And yet, disorientingly, day-to-day American life continued. No armies massed on the country’s borders. The nation felt itself plunged into momentous conflict, and yet so much of that conflict existed somewhere else — not just in remote places but in abstractions and arguments over what developments, far from any battlefield, would indicate that “the terrorists have won.”
“There is no longer any doubt,” said Condoleezza Rice in 2002, “that today America faces an existential threat to our security.” The fight against terrorism, Vice President Dick Cheney said, was an “
These two meanings have chased each other in circles for 15 years. Barack Obama, in an interview before his final State of the Union address last year, doggedly stuck to the more straightforward interpretation, professing that “there are no existential threats” to the United States — meaning, as he said in the address itself, that ISIS fighters, much as they might like to pretend so, “do not threaten our national existence.” A spokesman for Paul Ryan 
This was an interesting shift in definition. It’s not that Israel would be — as is so often actively threatened — wiped from the map. But it would lose a thing many consider central to its essence, a thing without which it could no longer be considered itself. But what makes a thing itself? We’re brought right back to philosophical questions. What is a nation, really? Precisely what would have to change for America to no longer qualify, in your estimation, as America at all?
It’s here that existential threats become subjective, that they lose their gravity and turn back into a vapor. For white nationalists, an America in which minorities mingle and miscegenate and share power with whites is an annihilating, nation-ending danger; for others, America cannot be itself 
Not 20 years ago, we seemed less apt to think this way. Totalizing, annihilating threats were for cranks, alarmists, extremists and speculating academics. Follow the path of existential danger, though, and you can track a slow shift in the tenor of our conversations. A few decades ago, we were still swaddled in a consensus that made us feel as if things were unlikely to change or end, even if we dearly wanted them to; the order of the world was too firm for that. Now we are more practiced than ever in spotting potential ends. We have made sport of it. We find wrenching, apocalyptic change lurking inside everything — enough to invoke just the kind of despair European intellectuals used to write plays about.