
LONDON — In the fall of 2015, Mohammed Sarrar made the physically and emotionally challenging journey from his native Sudan to the so-called Calais Jungle, a 
Founded in January 2015 but never officially recognized by the French government, the camp was a woeful sight. “It was a bad place,” Mr. Sarrar said in a recent interview. “It was wind and rain and cold and freezing and no electricity. It was not a proper place to live.”
But one structure stood out: a large domed tent, from which Mr. Sarrar, himself a drummer and singer, could hear live music playing. One day, he went in. And that visit ended up changing his life.
The young Sudanese man, now 27, had not ended in Calais by choice. A passionate opponent of President Omar al-Bashir’s military government, 
So he took a hazardous route to Europe, crossing desert and sea to Italy, then on to France, where he considered trying to claim refugee status. But he said that the French police reminded him too much of the ones back home. “I got beaten up like I did in Sudan,” he said. He decided to head to Britain.
And that meant finding his way to “the Jungle.” He arrived in Calais not long after two other young men did so as well, coming from the opposite direction. Joe Murphy and Joe Robertson — also both now 27 — were friends from northern England who had met at Oxford University and had begun writing plays together.
They had also become distressed by news accounts of the mounting migrant crisis in Europe. An acquaintance, the theater director 
And so they did.
“We arrived in Calais and found 8,000 people and the basic structure of a society,” Mr. Murphy recalled. “And then these nice Kuwaiti men took us in and built us a tent because we didn’t know what we were doing.”
They were not the only curious, well-meaning Westerners there. But they were the only ones who decided to set up a theater. They stayed a week; went home; raised £5,000 (approximately $6,700) via 
They named their theater Good Chance, partly because it gave refugees a chance to express themselves, but also because it was a nod to a piece of Jungle slang (“He got his good chance”) that meant successfully stowing away and crossing the English Channel.
It was, by and large, a success. Essentially a progressive community center, it built its programming around the talents of the Jungle’s transient population. On any given day, it might host theater workshops from “the two Joes,” kung fu lessons from the Iranian master who was a fixture for a few months, and all manner of dance, circus and live music performances — some from the band Mr. Sarrar had assembled shortly after arriving. It was empowering, entertaining and a rare melting pot for the camp’s myriad nationalities. (It also attracted negative coverage in the British tabloids, notably a 
But even with the ameliorating factors of music and camaraderie, the Jungle was no idyllic setting.
It certainly wasn’t pleasurable for Mr. Sarrar; he said that he tried to leave every night. But he played in his band, wrote some songs — he is particularly proud of an upbeat number recounting an absurd 24 hours he spent trapped in the Eurostar terminal in Calais — and made some contacts. One night, his own “good chance” came: He stowed away in a truck and made it through to Birmingham, England, where he claimed asylum. Six months later, he was granted leave to remain for five years, with the possibility of extension.
Mr. Murphy and Mr. Robertson remained in Calais, where the situation was rapidly deteriorating. “The cold was awful,” Mr. Robertson said. “The sanitation was awful, the police gradually became more aggressive and the unaccompanied kids started to go, well, mad. The mental health really got awful.”
Good Chance lasted until March 2016, when a section of the camp was forcibly cleared by French authorities. The rest of the Jungle was bulldozed in 
Today Good Chance is the name of a charity, which continues to work with migrants in Paris. But Mr. Murphy and Mr. Robertson, its artistic directors, are still playwrights. They are associates of London’s Young Vic. And they were invited to write a show about their experiences by 
The result is 
The duo assembled a cast that features three former camp residents, one of whom is Mr. Sarrar, who had moved to northern England after being granted asylum and then reconnected with the duo at a workshop in Manchester. Now smartly dressed, with a natty blond streak in his hair and a decent grasp of English, he plays a drum-toting refugee named Omar.
Produced by the National Theater and the Young Vic, “The Jungle” is directed by 
Rehearsal are freewheeling, lively and tinged with chaos. On a recent afternoon, the scenes being played out involved the actions of good-intentioned Western volunteers resulting in borderline farce after the Jungle’s denizens refuse to play ball. Performed in an immersive set that replicates one of the camp’s Afghan restaurants, the show is an unabashedly entertaining attempt to map and explain the Jungle’s brief existence. But it also explores the idea that volunteer intervention may have done more harm than good.
“I think when something tragic happens, be it Grenfell Tower or what was happening in the Jungle, the British have a particular, hugely generous response,” said Mr. Martin, who is Australian. “The play examines that. Can we help? Should we help? How do we help? And do we make things better or worse?”
It is a question that haunts the authors, who saw attitudes toward volunteers change in the camp as conditions got inexorably worse.
“At the start all we heard was ‘U.K.! U.K.! U.K. is the best country in the world!’” Mr. Robertson said. “But I remember the first time somebody went to me and said, ‘Are you from the U.K.?’” — and then hurled an expletive at him — “I think that’s where the germ for this play was.”
Britain’s current standing in the eyes of the world, particularly after the Brexit vote, is a complicated matter. But its traditional virtues — decency, hospitality, tolerance — are surely on display in the rapid integration of Mr. Sarrar, who was recovering in a Sudanese hospital just two years ago. Seated together in the National Theater’s interview room, Mr. Robertson and Mr. Murphy seemed genuinely nervous when Mr. Sarrar was asked whether he thought this play rang true to his own experience.
“Sometimes when I’m doing nothing in the play, I’m just looking at it and it takes me back to Calais,” said Mr. Sarrar to the playwrights’ evident relief. “All these emotions. For me it is something really big.”