
TUESDAY PUZZLE — If you’re going to have an existential crisis, having one over words and their value in crossword puzzles is probably as good a reason as any to have one.
This goes double if it inspires a person to make his debut in The New York Times Crossword.
Such is the case with Greg Poulos. As you will read in his notes below, the incredibly wide spectrum of views on what makes crossword fill “fresh” led him to build a theme solely out of words and phrases that had been handpicked by the 
I would say that he almost made it. While this might be a function of scheduling, not all of his theme entries are debuts. But they are interesting, as one might expect. My favorite is his seed entry, DUMPSTER FIRE, the 2016 WOTY, and which 
While this is an interesting idea, I wish there had been one or two fewer theme entries and better nontheme fill. There are a lot of three letter gluey bits in the grid, but I think that as Mr. Poulos gains more experience and fine-tunes his word lists, that will get better, especially since he seems to be aware of the issue to begin with.
Given the theme of today’s puzzle, I thought it would be interesting to include some commentary from a linguistic expert and my 
What a great idea for a theme! Given the word-nerdy kinship between neologism watchers and crossword lovers, I’m surprised it’s the first time this theme has been attempted.
The American Dialect Society has been awarding Word of the Year honors since 1990, but maybe it took this long for the stars to align just right — after all, the last two WOTY winners, SINGULAR THEY (2015) and DUMPSTER FIRE (2016), are nicely symmetrical (12 letters, with the same 8-4 enumeration).
Deb asked me to comment on each of the WOTY honorees featured in the grid. Though a couple of them are before my time — I didn’t really get active in the WOTY proceedings until 2005 (the year of “
MILLENNIUM BUG (
WMD (
PLUTOED (
BAILOUT (
APP (
SINGULAR THEY (
DUMPSTER FIRE (
The ADS will be gathering to anoint a new Word of the Year on Jan. 5, 2018 at our annual meeting, held this time at the Grand America Hotel in Salt Lake City (in conjunction with the 
34A: The start of the season, other than the Macy’s Thanksgiving Day parade, is TIS, as is “Tis the season.”
26D: “April Fools sign?” is not looking for sign of a prank, but of the astrological sign for April 1. That would be ARIES.
This puzzle came about as a result of a minor philosophical crisis.
I’d read a blog post where the author was complaining about a puzzle that he felt “lacked fresh fill.” This complaint surprised me, because I’d personally found the puzzle in question to be quite lively.
It got me wondering: what do we mean when we talk about “fresh fill”? What separates perfectly O.K., workhorse words from gnarly crosswordese? Can clever cluing turn a stale word fresh? And when does a word go from “fresh” to faddish, twee, or just plain annoying?
I soon began to doubt everything I knew about cruciverbalism and, indeed, language itself.
Around the same time, I read on Language Log (a blog run by an international supergroup of academic linguists) that the American Dialect Society had recently announced “DUMPSTER FIRE” as their 2016 Word of the Year. It struck me that if there were one word everyone could agree on as “fresh,” surely it’d be the A.D.S. Word of the Year.
So I made a puzzle based on that idea.
My initial plan was to seed the past several years’ winners anywhere I could fit them into a grid. But when I looked at the WotY list, I realized the word lengths might allow for symmetric placement. Luckily, I was able to pull it off.
I’m super-duper thrilled for this to be my debut puzzle in The Times. Thanks to my friends and family (especially Cliff, Nick, and the Daves Madden and Sheppard) for their support and feedback. Thanks also to Mr. Shortz for actually accepting this thing, and editing the clues to be better and more consistent overall.
My only regret is that UHF is no longer clued as “1989 ‘Weird Al’ film set at a low-budget TV station.”
Maybe this will make you feel better, Mr. Poulos. If nothing else, it will bring back the 1980s for you in a big way:
Your thoughts?