
In an essay in The 
Then, as now, ordinary people found themselves in an unpredictable, turbulent environment, unsure how to respond. Time would reveal who acted badly and who acted well; but Seiffert’s purpose is not to pass judgment. Her abiding concern, ever since she learned as a child that her German maternal grandparents had supported Hitler’s Reich (her grandfather as a doctor in the Waffen SS, her grandmother as a Nazi Party member), has been to explore the motivations, contradictions and weaknesses of the bystanders, victims and perpetrators of the Holocaust. “How does it feel to be on the wrong side of history?” she asked in the Guardian article, adding, “The times being what they are — I have found myself turning again and again to the question.” Her new novel’s inclusive, impartial vision awakens a contemporary reader’s conscience by highlighting the individual’s role in collective error: “How we respond when a principle is at stake.”
The characters in “A Boy in Winter” are as distinct and intricate as the wooden figures of animals, people, farmhouses and fruit trees that a boy named Yankel carves to distract his little brother, Momik, as they hide under the rafters of a building on the edge of a Ukrainian town. While they play, out of sight, German soldiers and Ukrainian auxiliary police are rounding up the town’s Jews for “resettlement.” In the room below the boys, a simple country girl named Yasia overhears their murmured conversation, which “sets off a ticking fear inside her” because the language they’re speaking isn’t Ukrainian. “Are they Jew children?” she wonders. The thought hadn’t occurred to her when she spotted them wandering the empty streets that cold, menacing morning. Preoccupied by the reckless mission that had brought her to town — the hope of meeting her fiancé, Mykola, who serves in the auxiliary police — Yasia had scooped up the children, taken them to her cousin’s workplace and gone about her business. “The boys needed hiding so she hid them, they needed feeding so she fed them; that was all she was doing,” she told herself. She knew “little of Jews; nothing to speak of. There are none who farm with her father, or in Mykola’s village either.” But as sirens blare and gunfire echoes across the town, she becomes aware of the risk she has taken. Her cousin’s neighbors are terrified. The Germans had registered all the local people on their lists; will ordinary Ukrainians be singled out next? “They won’t take us,” one insists. “It’s only the Jews they’re after,” another agrees. But Yasia knows it’s only a matter of time before a nervous neighbor reports her for harboring the boys. She longs to send them “off down the alleyways and be rid of them.” But she can’t bring herself to do it: “That would be shameful.” How long can her conscience override her instinct for self-preservation?
While Yasia wrestles with that decision, the boys’ parents, Ephraim and Miryam, stand amid their hastily gathered possessions in a brick factory, crowded alongside hundreds of the area’s Jewish residents. Ephraim is angry that his elder son has disobeyed him, running away with his little brother instead of accompanying their parents to “line up with dignity” at the factory, as the occupiers had commanded. “We will endure it,” Ephraim had told Yankel; but the boy chose another course, evidently remembering his adventurous Uncle Jaakov, long since emigrated to Palestine. Ephraim, who believes his family should be “all together in their time of need,” resents his brother-in-law for leaving their community. But most of his anger is directed at his “misguided” wife, who trusts that the boys will find refuge somewhere. “There are others,” Miryam tells her husband. “Yankel will find them.” To Ephraim, this is “naïveté.” He “cannot trust his sons to such uncertainty.” But what certainty exists in uncertain times?
As Ephraim broods, two other men confront their own collapsing autonomy. One is Otto Pohl, a German engineer who had tried to salve his conscience and save his skin by joining a roadworks corps instead of signing up with the Wehrmacht. At the brick factory, he belatedly realizes the impossibility of maintaining a moral high ground: “Out here, they can do anything they want. There is no law or truth or trust, no sense of reason.” The other man is Yasia’s headstrong fiancé, Mykola. He had deserted the Red Army when the Germans invaded, then joined the auxiliary police because “We had the Soviets, remember? Well, now we have new masters.” It will be “just the same,” he tells Yasia. “We just have to live to see them gone again.” What will Mykola’s new masters demand of him? “Shivering on the dogleg of cleared land, between the back wall of the factory and the scrub” where a pit has been freshly dug, he awaits instructions, gulping liquor from a flask being passed along the line, watching his barrack mates “flinging bundles” they’ve seized from the Jews who stumble through the mud between the rows of trucks. Observing Mykola’s distress, an SS sergeant asks, “Did you think this would be orderly?” Mykola doesn’t answer: “He doesn’t know what he thought it would be.”
The experiences Seiffert describes reflect actual wartime accounts, and the character of Otto Pohl was inspired by Willi Ahrem, a German commandant at a forced labor camp in the Ukrainian town of Nemirov, who warned Jewish laborers in advance of a massacre and helped some to escape, though he couldn’t save many. Today he’s recognized as one of the Righteous Among the Nations at Yad Vashem. It was Ahrem’s story, Seiffert wrote in The Guardian, that prompted her to revisit the question that haunts her: “What do you do when you have tried so hard to do the right thing, and yet you find yourself in the midst of such a great wrong?”
In all her fiction, whether she’s writing of the personal consequences of warfare and sectarianism in Northern Ireland, Kenya or Europe, or closely exploring fraught peacetime dynamics, Seiffert favors a spare, unexaggerated style. You sense in her a firm resistance to overplaying pathos, even when tragedy is her underlying subject. The power of her writing comes not from emotional manipulation or verbal fireworks but from her marshaling of the sort of visual detail that makes her settings feel almost tangible, and from the bonds she builds between her wary characters, who, like it or not, must accept their need for one another. Her first novel, 