
VENICE — Timing isn’t everything, but it’s a lot. If the bland, soft-power 2017 Venice Biennale, called 
This is particularly disappointing as the main show, organized by 
Yet the show doesn’t rise, doesn’t cohere. Thematic tension and critical drive are missing. Ms. Macel has divided the work, installed in two vast spaces — in the Giardini and the Arsenale — into nine sections with snoozy, New Age-y titles: Pavilion of Joys and Fears, Pavilion of the Earth, Pavilion of Time and Infinity, etc. She even kicks the whole thing off, in the Giardini, with images of artists napping in their studios.
She’s trying to make a point about downtime as dreamtime, a mode of passive-resistant creativity in an era of frantic, art fair-directed production. Unfortunately, the nodding-off image reinforces a second reality: the fact that the current market-addled mainstream art world really is, politically, out of it. And a lot of the work being produced, at least on some of the evidence here, barely rates a second look.
There are exceptions in the Giardini, the park that hosts some 30 national pavilions. One, a witty video by the young Russian artist 
The installation at the Arsenale, a former medieval shipyard, is more persuasive overall, largely thanks to a concentration of fiber-based work by 
But she runs into trouble in the Pavilion of Shamans, which has as its centerpiece a large open-weave, tentlike enclosure by the Brazilian artist 
Their presence was disconcerting. It revived the “primitivism” debate of 30 years, its terms unchanged: We in the West continue to import the Other for our pleasure, while remaining complicit in a global economy that is destroying the Other’s world. True to this Biennale’s frustratingly muted politics, no curatorial statement appears, acknowledging these issues.
Only one major piece makes an effort to bridge the art-life divide through what is now known as “social practice,” and that is the traveling project called “Green Light — An Artistic Workshop,” under the direction of the artist 
Useful as it may be, the project is typical of the mainstream art world’s boutique approach to hands-on-politics, one that often ropes its beneficiaries into being art objects themselves, as live performers. A more discreet version of this model is the project called “Process Collettivo,” initiated by 
A year before the show, Mr. Bradford proposed a work program to authorities at two Venetian prisons, through which inmates, male and female, would learn to produce a variety of luxury goods — tote bags, cosmetics — the sale of which would financially ease their transition upon release. In partnership with a local social work cooperative called 
As a biennale artist, he has also taken over the American Pavilion in the Giardini and created a dense environment of abstract molded and painted forms that suggest, among other things, the underworld of European classical myths and the hull of a trans-Atlantic slave ship. His work occupies one of some 50 national pavilions divided between the Giardini and the Arsenale. The few that make a lasting impression this year tend to be devoted to single artists. 
Anne Imhof’s performance piece at the German Pavilion won the 
At the Arsenale, 
That’s true of a selection of paintings, by the 
The Biennale also has what it calls “collateral events,” often organized by private foundations or commercial galleries. This year’s include a beauty and a beast. The Swiss-based Hauser & Wirth Gallery has delivered a coup — the thematic survey loan show 
Would it be worth going all the way to Venice to see Guston? In this case, probably yes. The show won’t travel. While there, you’ll want to drop by the Fondazione Prada, which does the kind of offbeat exhibitions no one else ever thinks of or dares. The current one, called 
The other must-see, only because a lot of people seem to be seeing it, is the double-barreled rollout of new sculpture by 
Titled 
I guess it’s meant to be fun, though it’s a pretty expensive joke. (How many “Process Collettivos,” do you think, could be paid for with $60 million?) Maybe because I was coming to Venice this time from a stay in Rome, I’d already had my fill, in art, of antique bloviation and bad Baroque, and here it was again on the Grand Canal.
I’m instinctively sympathetic to career-salvaging efforts on an artist’s part, which this work is rumored to be. And experience has taught me that damning criticism can be as useful, promotion-wise, as praise. So I don’t have much to say about “Treasures of the Wreck” except that it’s there; that some people care; and that it’s irrelevant to anything I know about that matters.