
Ai Weiwei lives his life in public: blogging his anger at the Chinese government, transforming his detention into harrowing dioramas, and now Instagramming up a storm from his exile in Berlin. Over the last two years, the world’s most famous artist-activist has been traveling to refugee camps from Greece to Iraq and Gaza to Myanmar, documenting the displacement of millions and the borders they are desperate to cross. Others might have stayed behind the camera. Mr. Ai, now a refugee himself, puts himself right in front.
The worldwide refugee crisis is the subject of “Human Flow,” Mr. Ai’s new film, and it also informs a gargantuan undertaking of new public artworks in New York, running from Harlem to Flushing and united under the title “
Remember the 1990s, when the hawkers of globalization told us this century would see borders fall? In fact 
This week I saw a solid hunk of the hundreds of small and large additions Mr. Ai has made to New York’s streets and parks. Out in Queens, Mr. Ai has encircled the 
There’s a similar tension between menace and shelter in a series of fences and barriers erected in the East Village and in Harlem. The facade of Cooper Union’s original building — where Abraham Lincoln gave the address that drove him to the presidency in 1860 — has been retrofitted with five chain-link baffles that turn its north portico into a prison yard. The burlesque nightclub The Box, over on Chrystie Street, is now topped by a double-height metal grille, as if for riot prevention. And commuters along 125th Street will see metal barricades behind two bus stops, gently curving behind their rear glass panels. Similar barriers have been erected elsewhere in Harlem, and behind bus stops in Brooklyn and the Bronx.
The strongest of Mr. Ai’s new sculptures is “Gilded Cage,” standing 24 feet tall at the southeast entrance to Central Park. This elegant, quietly ominous pavilion consists of an inner ring, inaccessible to viewers, fenced off by hundreds of soaring arched steel struts. A small section of the inner ring has been cut out, so you can walk into the heart of this threatening pergola. Look up from inside, and Mr. Ai’s sculpture resolves into abstract beauty; look into the central ring, and you’ll see its symmetry disrupted by turnstiles familiar from the New York subway, or United States-Mexico border crossings. (You may remember that Mr. Ai once had another set of sculptures on view in this square: 
In many of Mr. Ai’s best sculptures, repeated forms are freighted with historical or political overtones and yet remain ice-cold — whether in “
The counterpart to “Gilded Cage” is the even taller “Arch,” which occupies nearly the whole space underneath the marble arch in Washington Square Park. This simpler, unpainted steel cage is pierced by a mirrored opening, its form suggestive of two conjoined figures. They may appear to bystanders as weary travelers, though mega-fans of Marcel Duchamp will pick out the reference: The figures quote the French-American artist’s 
Compared to the sphinxlike “Gilded Cage,” “Arch” wears its convictions more publicly. This is a big, public ode to freedom of movement, yoking America’s first president (a dissident) and most influential Dadaist (an immigrant). The test of a work of art’s success, though, is not how fluently it communicates a single message; the test is how forcefully it reflects, unsettles, and transforms the world in which it intercedes. By that standard, “Gilded Cage” stands as the greater achievement, enfolding inside and outside, warden and captive, into a single, synthesized public form. “Arch,” by contrast, offers less, and risks being remembered only as a selfie backdrop for woke narcissists.
Bridging all these works are two hundred lamppost banners, depicting immigrants and refugees — some of whom Mr. Ai photographed in Iraq’s Shariya refugee camp, others snapped on his cellphone during his travels for “Human Flow,” and still more borrowed from historical sources. (Among the last category: Emma Goldman, 
If you’ve seen the Guggenheim’s muscular, rigorous new exhibition, “
I’ve always found that gripe to be unfounded. Like his hero Duchamp, Mr. Ai has wholly erased any border between his art and his life — and there are some emergencies, among them the displacement of more human beings than any time since World War II, that this artist can only address with bluntness. That sometimes lends itself to less challenging sculpture, like in Washington Square, or simple boosterism, as in the refugee portrait banners. Step back, though, and look at the project in aggregate, and “Good Fences Make Good Neighbors” displays all the confidence and moral passion of his most important later projects.
One of the great surprises of this citywide artistic outcry is that Mr. Ai’s obstructions — “very almost-art, but maybe, maybe not,” as he told 
Passengers waiting for the bus on 125th Street behind Mr. Ai’s barricades went right on with their commutes. Tourists in Corona Park were taking their selfies with a fence in frame. At Cooper Union and in Washington Square, metal barriers from the N.Y.P.D. echoed the artist’s own. South of “Gilded Cage,” shoppers on Fifth Avenue wended through ad hoc concrete obstacles around the president’s own tower. Mr. Ai’s citywide checkpoints are a hundred muted bells that add up to a deafening alarm: We have accepted so many physical and political limits that new ones go unnoticed, and we may not protest our shrinking freedom until it’s too late.