
We seem to be entering an age of secession. As I write this on Friday, Spain has moved to take direct control of Catalonia, escalating the battle over the region’s desire for independence. Where that will lead was not clear, but jailing Catalan leaders was among the possibilities. Before that, of course, there was Brexit, and before that Scotland’s move for independence and even break-away rumblings from northern Italy. Here in Canada, a relatively recent conglomeration of former British colonies, we’ve also grappled with separatist urges. Quebec voted in 1995 by the narrowest of margins — the winning side drew 50.58 percent — to stay in Canada.
Newfoundland has its own tradition of feeling apart. It has been on my mind as I prepare to interview the novelists Wayne Johnston and Linda Spalding at the 
Years later, Sheilagh Fielding, the fictional and formidable newspaper columnist who has now appeared in three of Mr. Johnston’s books, tartly tells a political aide that she’s never been to Canada. Another central character in the book, Brendan Vatcher, becomes a celebrity for being the “last Newfoundlander,” the last baby born in Newfoundland before it joined Canada at midnight on April 1, 1949.
The boy, a narrator offers, came into the world “dodging, by seven minutes, the infamy of having his birthday forever celebrated on the day the Old Flag fell, April Fools’ Day, the day they put the final nail in the coffin of the Cause.”
The longing for an independent Newfoundland hasn’t entirely evaporated nearly 70 years later. In silent protest, many people still fly a 
Perhaps paradoxically, or perhaps not, “First Snow, Last Light” describes a Newfoundland rushing to embrace all things American after troops from the United States flood into it during World War II.
“By 1955, St. John’s was full of things made in America,” says the character Ned Vatcher, a postwar media tycoon and adoptive father of Brendan. “But the Americans themselves had gone back to the country they had left just long enough to win the war as a favor to the rest of the floundering free world. My television stations brought back those Americans.”
Secession movements in Newfoundland, of course, never reached the level they achieved in Quebec.
The mood for an independent Quebec seems low at the moment, although it is clear that many French-speaking Quebecers don’t feel particularly engaged with Canada either. Newfoundland is preoccupied with budget problems brought on partly by the collapse of oil prices.
If you live in Quebec or Newfoundland and have thoughts about your province’s place in Canada, I’d like to share them with other readers of the Canada Letter: 
This week, I visited a Sears Canada store during its liquidation sale. Its employees had abandoned the store’s more formal dress code for jeans. Despite looming unemployment, they worked hard to keep shelves organized and clothing folded in the face of customers who seemed to use the store’s closing as an excuse for a shopping rampage.
In addition to losing their jobs and having no severance pay, Sears employees have another worry on their minds. Like many companies, the Sears pension fund has a large shortfall, about 270 million Canadian dollars. As many observers have pointed out, there had been more than enough cash available to cover that shortfall. As it sold off assets in recent years, Sears paid about 2.7 billion Canadian dollars in dividends to shareholders, the largest of which include 
(A spokesman for Sears Holdings declined to comment, instead providing a link to a 
How much of a pension hit Sears employees will experience is unknown. And this is not the first time Canadians have heard such a story. The collapse of the once mighty Nortel took a toll on employee retirement benefits.
As was the case after Nortel’s failure, there are again 
Sears’s passing also brings with it an end to department store catalog shopping in Canada, once an integral part of many people’s lives. Some of you graciously responded to my recent request for your memories of catalog shopping.
Here are some highlights:
Danielle LaPorte said that when the Christmas edition arrived at her family’s home in Callander, Ontario, “my friend Judy would come over and we’d spend hours sitting on the sofa initialing every single item we were interested in, taking turns back and forth on each page.” Often, Mr. LaPorte said, her parents took the hint and one or two of the items would appear as gifts.
“My mother later told me that she used to go through the catalog herself and fill out the order form with every single thing each of her seven children, husband and she needed, as well as a few things for the house,” Ms. LaPorte added. Financial reality then set in. “She’d throw the order form in the garbage but somehow feel better. I guess she liked to dream, too.”
Leann McAndie also engaged in enthusiastic study of the Christmas catalogs with her sisters on a farm in southern Saskatchewan during the late 1960s. But for her, the memory had a dark side.
Ms. McAndie said that her older sisters once told her that their mother, who was away from home, was never returning and that she had to pick out a replacement from the models in the catalog. “I remember, like it was yesterday, sitting in our farmhouse living room with tears streaming down my face at the thought of never seeing my mother again yet dutifully turning the pages of the catalog and trying to decide between the new moms on offer.”
For Heather McLaren, who now lives in Winnipeg, Manitoba, catalogs were a way to earn, as well as spend, money.
“Growing up in Toronto, Eaton’s and Simpsons were employers of many university students including me,” she wrote. “My first summer job was as a clerk in Eaton’s catalog division, where I processed returns and claims for damaged merchandise. It is where I learned what the word ‘pilfered’ meant!”
Climate change has sometimes sparked discussions about the need for Canada to rethink how it defines refugees. A 
Such policies have yet to appear in the seven years following that paper’s publication but, of course, severe climate events continue to pile up.
Geeta Anand and Vikram Singh went to southern India, where intense heat has brought suicides, starvation and migration to a region that may become unfit for people. They’ve produced a powerful and moving multimedia documentary.
In addition to reporting about the world, The Times is also a guide to living in it. 
My colleague Dan Levin, who has reported on the 
—Two groups 
—The Immigration and Refugee Board 
—A couple from Connecticut have pledged 10 million Canadian dollars 
—Quebec’s adoption of a “religious neutrality” law that requires people to show their faces when giving or receiving public services has 