
BRUSSELS — Separatist politicians in Catalonia have been pushing for independence from Spain. After three months of political turmoil, new Catalan elections are scheduled for Dec. 21.
According to the European Union, its 28 member states contain 
Of the 276 regions, some are pressing for independence or much greater autonomy.
Catalonia has its own 
Catalonia’s push for autonomy in the 1930s was one of the reasons behind the Spanish Civil War, and the resulting Franco dictatorship crushed many civil liberties, suppressing the Catalan language. After Franco’s death in 1975, Spain’s return to democracy was enshrined in a new Constitution, which created a decentralized but not formally federal state.
In 2006, a new statute of Catalan autonomy, which had been drafted by a Socialist-led regional government, was approved in a regional referendum, as well by Catalan and Spanish lawmakers. The statute might have forestalled the current crisis over yet more extreme independence demands, but it was rejected in part by Spain’s constitutional court in 2010, after Spain’s conservative Popular Party had campaigned fiercely against it.
During the financial crisis, the regional government in wealthy Catalonia pushed unsuccessfully for a better tax deal with the national authorities. In September 2015, a coalition of separatist parties won a majority of the seats in the Catalan Parliament, but they did so with only 48 percent of the votes in regional elections.
The separatist coalition then organized an 
The Basques have their own history, culture and language. Although the region straddles France and Spain, aspirations for greater autonomy have been almost exclusively limited to the population on Spanish soil.
During Gen. Francisco Franco’s dictatorship, a separatist group known as E.T.A. pressed for Basque independence with a violent campaign of bombings and assassinations. After 
In recent years, mainstream Basque politicians have made some efforts to gain more autonomy. In 2004, the Basque regional Parliament approved a plan for a new statute of autonomy, which Spanish lawmakers rejected.
Scotland joined with England to form Britain in 1707, and has had an active independence movement for decades. A Scottish Parliament was established in 1999 with limited power over matters such as health, education and the environment, and the pro-independence 
In the 2016 
Flanders, known for its medieval cities and its World War I battlefields, is one of three regions in the federation of Belgium, but is home to the majority of the country’s 11 million inhabitants, and produces about half its GDP. Flemish people speak Dutch, whereas Walloons — residents of the second largest region, Wallonia — speak French and some German.
Flanders has existed as a political entity since the Middle Ages, encompassing the territory around the cities of Ghent, Bruges and Ypres, but never achieved full sovereignty. Belgium itself, founded in 1830, is a relatively young country in Europe. The Flemish independence movement emerged in the late 19th century and gained momentum after World War II. From 1970 onward, the region progressively obtained autonomy, following six constitutional revisions that transformed Belgium from a unitary country into a federation.
Today, Flanders has its own Parliament and government, with authority over language, culture, education, municipalities, public works, the economy and even foreign trade. The Flemish independence movement is represented politically by the 
The mountainous Mediterranean island of Corsica is one of France’s 18 regions. Its inhabitants make up 0.5 percent of France’s population of 67 million. The island’s main economic activities are tourism and subsistence-oriented local commerce.
Because Corsica is close to Italy, Italian culture has historically had a strong influence on the island, reflected in the local tongue, Corsican.
Corsican nationalism emerged after World War I and grew into a movement demanding more autonomy and even independence. Since the 1970s, there have been flare-ups of political violence in Corsica, including bombings and assassinations carried out by groups supporting the independence movement. The French state has always opposed full independence, but over the past decades, it has granted greater autonomy to Corsica than to any other region and invested strongly in its infrastructure.
The Corsican nationalist movement is primarily represented by two political parties: 
With more than 10 million inhabitants, Lombardy is the most populous of Italy’s 20 regions, and its capital, Milan, is the country’s financial and fashion center.
Italy’s 1948 Constitution gave five regions — Valle d’Aosta, Friuli-Venezia-Giulia, Sardinia, Sicily and Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol — broader powers in areas including finance and administration. But regions in the north still have active separatist movements. Since 2013, Lombardy has been governed by members of the Lega Nord, a party founded in 1991 through the federation of several hybrid separatist movements, including the local Lega Lombarda.
An early incarnation of the party envisioned the creation — and secession — of a state known as Padania, which included northern regions as well as Umbria, Tuscany and the Marches. The party has since abandoned its separatist longings to pursue a broader support base, and in October it dropped the “Nord” from its name.
Veneto separatists still mourn the decline of the Most Serene Republic of Venice, a sovereign state in northeastern Italy that held sway for around 1,100 years before it fell to foreign forces in 1797. The Veneto has its own widely spoken language, Venetian.
The regional council last year also sought to have the “Venetian people” recognized as a minority, but the national government challenged that measure earlier this year. Numerous movements in the region — broadly known as Venetists — still aspire to significantly greater autonomy, if not independence. Some are longstanding parties like the Liga Veneta, which helped found the Lega Nord. Since 2010, the region has been governed by the Northern League.
In some cases, Veneto separatists have clashed with the law. A group of separatists who occupied the Campanile in St. Mark’s Square in 1997 was sentenced to prison. Members of the National Liberation Movement of the Venetian People who attended a 2009 protest march in camouflage were accused by the police of being a paramilitary group. In 2014, a group of separatists was briefly arrested on terrorism charges.
Here are two recent examples, one violent and one peaceful.