
The Justice Department 
By challenging the deal, the Justice Department is signaling that its approach to antitrust enforcement is starkly different from the course of action followed during the Obama presidency. In 2011, for instance, the department 
In response, AT&T’s general counsel David R. McAtee II said in a statement:
“Today’s DOJ lawsuit is a radical and inexplicable departure from decades of antitrustprecedent. Vertical mergers like this one are routinely approved because they benefitconsumers without removing any competitor from the market. We see no legitimatereason for our merger to be treated differently.
“Fortunately, the Department of Justice doesn’t havethe final say in this matter. Rather, it bears the burden of proving to the U.S. DistrictCourt that the transaction violates the law. We are confident that the Court will rejectthe Government’s claims and permit this merger under longstanding legal precedent.”
The Chinese technology company’s 
“The Alibaba Group and Tencent Holdings, Chinese companies that dominate their home market, have rocketed this year to become global investor darlings...While American technology giants dominate people’s online lives in Western countries, Tencent and Alibaba have soared by essentially carving up China, the world’s single-largest internet market with more than 700 million online users.”
“Their rise is emblematic of a rebalancing of global technological influence. In recent years, places from Paris to Seoul have claimed the mantle of the next Silicon Valley. Yet the cluster of fast-growing start-ups and internet behemoths coming out of China has emerged as the one true rival in scale, value and technology to the West Coast homes of the American technology renaissance.”
The world’s largest banks have become better capitalized since financial crisis. They have raised more than $1.5 trillion in capital, according to the Financial Stability Board. That provides the banks with “buffers as much as 10x higher than a decade,” writes S&P Global.
But these financial instutions have also gotten much larger since the financial crisis.
In the United States, for example, JPMorgan Chase has nearly doubled in size since the end of 2006. Bank of America has increased its asset by more than 50 percent, and Wells Fargo’s assets are up more than 300 percent from their pre-crisis levels, according to S&P Global.
Much of those increases are a result of deals struck during the heights of the crisis. JPMorgan bought Bear Stearns and Washington Mutual; Bank of America acquired CountryWide and Merrill Lynch and Wells Fargo purchased Wachovia.
Still the size of these banks is noteworthy. The ‘too big to fail’ distinction has drawn scrutiny from the Trump administration this year. A report from the Treasury Department last month “discussed the need to eliminate regulation ‘that fosters the creation or cements the market position of too-big-to-fail institutions’ in order to prevent taxpayer-funded bailouts.”
A surprising percentage of respondents to DataTrek Research’s bitcoin/cryptocurrency survey don’t think so.
• Just 39.4 percent of respondents said they believe bitcoin was in a bubble. “We were ready to see +70% responses indicating bitcoin’s price is unsustainable. Less than 40% is, well, remarkable,” writes DataTrek’s co-founder Nicholas Colas.
• Slightly more than 27 percent expect bitcoin to rise but at much slower pace. Just 16% think the value of bitcoin will double in the next six months.
• “A sizeable minority of respondents (39 – 40 percent) see bitcoin as a potential analog to physical gold, both as a safe haven and a hedge against mistakes in central bank monetary policy,” Mr. Colas writrs. Nearly 41 percent consider bitcoin a safe haven similar to gold, and 39 percent view bitcoin as a hedge against monetary policy.
Would the Republican from Maine end up working to defeat the Senate’s tax overhaul, as she did with attempts to repeal the Affordable Care Act? Or would she simply lobby for changes to make it more acceptable?
Ms. Collins said on Sunday that 
Repealing the individual mandate, a key part of the A.C.A., had gained popularity as a way to help save money to pay for the Senate’s proposed tax cuts. But the Congressional Budget Office thinks that the savings would be 
David Mendels, who until a few months ago was the C.E.O. of the video company Brightcove, wrote a LinkedIn post this month that has become 
• “It is a simple but true concept, customers drive business growth, not tax rates, not mythical ‘job creators.’ Tax rates impact profitability, but are only very indirectly tied to hiring.”
• “Labor markets determine salaries, not tax rates.”
• “As a C.E.O. and member of the board of directors at a public company, I can tell you that if we had an increase in profitability we would have been delighted but it would not lead in and of itself to more hiring or an increase in wages.”
The euro has recovered from its initial decline after the news that Germans might have to go to the polls. But that hasn’t eased the anxiousness of some market commentators.
Here’s what Tilmann Galler, a global market strategist at JPMorgan Chase, told 
“Angela Merkel’s position seems to be significantly weakened. This could leave Europe’s largest economy politically paralyzed for the time being, reducing the chances for any breakthrough in the E.U. reform agenda or the Brexit negotiations.”
But Hartmut Issel, head of equity and credit for Asia Pacific at UBS Wealth Management, 
“Even if there are re-elections, that is very unlikely to be populist. That’s why it’s going to be a limited down reaction.”
A growing number of start-ups are attracting plenty of money without the need for an initial public offering. (That includes letting shareholders sell their stakes to other investors in the private markets, a practice that’s 
After the financial crisis, the federal government was expected to aggressively pursue criminal cases against top financiers. Prosecutions were rare, except with obscure, or relatively junior, industry players against whom it was easy to build cases, because prosecutors were under pressure to move quickly and win cases.
Philip Baker became one of those targets.
He was not a big fish. But the desire to resolve the case swiftly led a powerful United States attorney to insert a transfer-to-Canada clause into an otherwise airtight plea agreement.
David Enrich of the NYT 
In 2011, the government allowed Comcast to absorb NBCUniversal in another “harmless” vertical merger (a deal that I opposed). Afterwards, Comcast was caught discriminating against rival cable channels and slowing down rival online video services. All the while, America tumbled down global broadband rankings. So much for “synergies.”
This time it’s Jack Lew, who is 
Unlike Mr. Geithner, however, Mr. Lew already had a background in finance, having worked at Citigroup. The current Treasury secretary, Steven Mnuchin, was a partner at Goldman Sachs and a hedge fund founder before joining the Trump administration.
The iPhone maker’s vice president of diversity and inclusion, Denise Young Smith, is leaving after only six months in the role — and after she made controversial remarks about how she thinks of diversity extending beyond race and gender.
Speaking at a Quartz event in Bogotá, Colombia in October, 
But according to TechCrunch, citing an unidentified person, Ms. Young Smith apparently began 
The 
“I should take that as a compliment that I look like a villain in a great, successful James Bond movie.”
— Steven Mnuchin, on that now-famous photo, to Chris Wallace of 