
Want to join us? Apply to participate 
Today, the big question facing Netflix, the darling of growth investors around the world, is: 
The biggest number from yesterday’s third-quarter earnings call was that the company will spend between 
Netflix has continued to pay for original content — from “Stranger Things” to “The Crown” — by borrowing in the debt markets.
Right now, the company has held onto a B1 credit rating from Moody’s, a relatively high-tier noninvestment-grade level.
In 
But as interest rates keep rising, and competitors like Hulu pose the risk of more bidding wars for content, will that continue to hold true?
• The 5.3 million in additional new customers during the quarter — which brought Netflix’s total to 
• Revenue rose 30 percent in the quarter from the same period a year ago, to just under 
• Net income leapt 152 percent, to 
• Netflix says it isn’t worried about moves like Disney withdrawing its catalog from the service, pointing out that Disney movies aren’t available in its international markets. Its total paying international subscriber base jumped 43 percent, to 
From a 
That’s what Ilya A. Strebulaev, a professor at Stanford University, and Will Gornall, a professor at the University of British Columbia, wrote in a new research paper on so-called unicorns, start-ups valued at $1 billion or more.
Companies are using sophisticated investment terms to inflate their valuations. Take them away, and, the professors found, 
More from Andrew’s 
But will their alliance, 
“We are fighting for lower taxes, big tax cuts, the biggest tax cuts in the history of our nation,” President Trump said at the gathering.
One potential hurdle is the group of Republican lawmakers who fear growing the deficit. But they’re an increasingly isolated group within their own party.
Rachel Bade and Burgess Everett, 
Corporate America is growing anxious, in part because of the upheaval in the nation’s capital.
Melanie Nolen, 
The Trump administration’s hard line on issues like an expiration date for Nafta and putting country-of-origin labels on auto parts could lead to the end of the free-trade agreement.
Josh Wingrove and Eric Martin, 
A preliminary count of P.&G.’s board election showed that Nelson Peltz lost by 6.15 million votes, or only about 0.2 percent of the company’s outstanding shares.
David Benoit and Sharon Terlep, 
Mr. Peltz says: “Trian continues to believe that the election is too close to call.”
P.&G. says: “P.&G. shareholders have spoken.”
As the financier (and close friend of Mr. Trump) prepares to negotiate over how much of the Weinstein Company he wants to buy, let’s take a look at the embattled studio’s most valuable assets.
The Weinstein Company previously tried to sell a stake in the unit, home of “Project Runway” and a forthcoming mini-series about the cult leader David Koresh, at a $650 million valuation. It ultimately didn’t strike a deal.
But partners like Amazon have already pulled out of projects, leaving the media investor Amir Malin to wonder to the 
Though best known for award-winning movies like “The King’s Speech” and “The Imitation Game,” the Weinstein Company’s best-known division, the studio doesn’t have a promising slate of forthcoming titles.
Around 200 older movies were sold to Goldman Sachs and Assured Guaranty, leaving little left in the archive.
Mr. Barrack would get any Weinstein Company assets at a fire sale price.
Ben Fritz, Cara Lombardo and Erich Schwartzel, 
Larry Hutcher, a co-managing partner at Davidoff Hutcher and Citron LLP who specializes in corporate buyouts and disputes, estimates that Colony could get as much as a 40 percent discount if it buys Weinstein Co., based on the damage already done and the urgent timeline of the sale.
The retail chain’s founding family said that it wouldn’t pursue a leveraged buyout company of the department store operator until at least after the holiday season.
Tiffany Hsu, 
One of the biggest believers in the embattled retailer’s turnaround efforts has stepped down from the board, though Sears said that it wasn’t because of disagreement with the company’s management.
Cara Lombardo and Allison Prang, 
Here’s how investors reacted to the news from each company:
• Michael Novogratz, the former Fortress Investment Group executive, has agreed to join the board of advisers for AirSwap, a platform based on the digital currency Ethereum that allows people to swap tokens or digital coins. (
• Christopher Burghardt will leave his role as head of policy in Europe at Uber to join Chargepoint, an electric vehicle network company. (