
“Pride and Prejudice” celebrated the 200th anniversary of its publication in 2013, and, as “
From the new 
Four years later, on July 18, 2017, came the 200th anniversary of Jane Austen’s death, and interest surged again. But, as Devoney Looser 
Below, a few ideas for teaching and learning with the many recent Times pieces celebrating her life and work, followed by links to many more.
Do you teach Jane Austen? Tell us how, in the comments.
_________
What traits make Austen special, and can they be measured with data? Can literary genius be graphed?
One of the authors explains the idea in a 
… the peculiar brilliance of Austen lies partly in what she focuses on, and what she ignores.
Scarce or absent were big, dramatic things: war, elopement, murder, highwaymen, kidnapping, ghosts, gambling, shipwrecks, pirates. Instead we have families, letters, visiting, gossip, carriages, tea, dances, conversations, thoughts, emotions. We are left with daily, ordinary life, a focus on states of mind, thoughts and feelings — and efforts to understand others’.
And word choice can show this.
To reduce words to data points is not to diminish the power of choosing the right ones and putting them in the right order; there’s magic in fiction’s ability to explore universal human truths. But a discipline like statistics can offer a new and amusing — even instructive — look at something as intuitive and artistic as a novel, and that’s exciting, too. A new source of enjoyment, as Henry Tilney might have put it, and we must agree that it is well to have as many holds upon happiness as possible.
Have students read “
How do “these distinctive words, word clusters and grammatical constructions highlight her writerly preoccupations: states of mind and feeling, her characters’ unceasing efforts to understand themselves and other people”? How do they show her “acute emotional intelligence”?
_________
What are the rules, written and unwritten, that govern courtship, love and marriage in Jane Austen?
What are the rules, written and unwritten, that govern courtship, love and marriage today?
Have students work in groups to make lists, providing evidence from the novels for each Austen entry.
Then, have them compare the two. How many of the rules are exactly the same? How many today could be considered updated versions of something on their Austen list? What conclusions can they draw about how much courtship, love and marriage has changed in two centuries?
Next, have students read “
Invite them to use any of these pieces to revisit their list of the rules that govern love, courtship and marriage today. What would they add? Which of the “Modern Love” pieces provide evidence for something listed previously? Does anything they read or see in that forum remind them of something in the Austen novel they are reading? How?
As a final challenge, you might invite students to write 13-word love stories from the point of view of any Austen character of their choice. Post them around the room or read them aloud and see if the class can guess which character is speaking in each.
_________
Great novels keep on giving: No matter our age or circumstance, every time we read or reread them, they allow us to see ourselves and our world reflected anew.
Two essays in The Times this year focused on how rereading Jane Austen during times of crisis offered great comfort, and reminded one of “how infinitely adaptable her work is.” 
In her piece, “
When something terrible hits you unexpectedly, the universe seems out of balance. It’s random, and it’s cruel, and it’s anarchic. There are no certainties. Evil could just as easily triumph as good. Jane Austen’s self-enclosed world enveloped me, soothing in its contours and assumptions. I didn’t know the end of my own story, and my mind raced toward horror.
Even when the wily or wicked mar Austen’s universe, they do not prevail. Like the grounds at Pemberley, an inherent order shapes the physical and moral landscape. Nature is tamed, and human nature too. Wickham is brought low, even though he has corrupted Lydia. Elizabeth may have been duped, but she sees clearly by the end.
It is that dollop of wisdom that elevates Austen from a simple comedy of manners. It’s not too heavy-handed or even, I concede, that profound. But pure beach reading wouldn’t have comforted me. I wanted escape, but I needed moral resonance. For as delightful as Austen’s static world may be, it is the humbling, bracing confrontation with the self that lifts her characters beyond caricature and her plots beyond Harlequin romance.
And in “
This was Emma’s vocation as well as mine: To fill in the blanks in our parents’ abstract reasoning, to offer reassurance in the face of anxiety and confusion, and to help orient them when they felt disoriented. I began a dialogue in my mind in which I used what I learned about Alzheimer’s to deepen my understanding of the novel, and Emma’s behavior to instruct me on caregiving.
What connections can students make between any of the Austen novels and their own lives? What wisdom can she offer them? Invite students to find a quote or a specific scene and write a personal essay about how and why it resonates with their own lives. Or, invite students to collaborate on creating an annotated list of the books 
_________
The question of whether Jane Austen was a feminist has been asked for over a century, according to 
What do your students think? What is Austen saying about the roles of women? Do her female lead characters challenge gender norms? What evidence from the novels can they find to support their positions? For example, would they agree with Anna Holmes’s argument in “
In addition to reflecting how women’s economic autonomy creates freedom in other areas of their lives, Emma Woodhouse is a powerful example of a woman who puts herself first, placing a greater value on her needs and desires than on those of many of the men around her. Embedded within Austen’s comedy of manners is the subtle but sustained assertion that women should concentrate less on whether they are worthy of a potential suitor and more on whether a potential suitor is worthy of them.
To go further, you might use our lesson plan, 
The lesson draws on the 2012 Times article “
Is a Jane Austen a safe, “ladylike” author removed from the rough and tumble of politics? Or, are her novels “blueprints for a white nationalist ‘ethno-state’”?
According to “
In the 1993 book “Culture and Imperialism,” the Palestinian-American literary critic Edward W. Said argued that Austen’s novel “Mansfield Park” glorifies the grand estates of England but is silent about the West Indian slave plantations that supported many of them.
But last year, in “Jane Austen, the Secret Radical,” the British scholar Helena Kelly argued that the novel was larded with subtle references to abolition and the Church of England’s complicity in slavery that no reader of Austen’s time would have missed.
“
After, the class might return to the final lines of “Jane Austen Has Alt-Right Fans?” that quotes Juliette Wells, author of “
Ms. Wells said scholars teaching Austen at schools with “substantially multicultural students” still wrestled with a truth that must, perhaps, be uncomfortably acknowledged.
“Her characters are white, and her world is white,” she said. “What do you do with that?”
Ask students: Given some of the arguments raised in these pieces, should Austen still be taught in high schools? Invite them to debate the question, and to find evidence for their arguments in the novels themselves.
_______
Jane Austen hasn’t written a new book in 200 years, but that hasn’t stopped anyone from trying to resurrect, recast and reimagine her old ones. “Pride and Prejudice,” in particular, has enjoyed a full and occasionally wacko afterlife. It’s been a Bollywood extravaganza (“Bride & Prejudice”), an undead-themed novelty novel (“Pride and Prejudice and Zombies”), a frothy homage (“Bridget Jones’s Diary”) and, best of all, a BBC mini-series that established the universal truth that a billowy poet’s blouse is one hot garment on a man, if the blouse is wet and the man is Colin Firth.
So begins 
What versions of Austen novels do your students know about? Most teenagers will have seen the film “Clueless.” Here is a paragraph from the 1995 
The setting is Bronson Alcott High School, which is not this film’s only nod to the classics. Some of “Clueless” is actually lifted from Jane Austen’s “Emma,” with Cher a mind-bendingly up-to-date version of the novel’s matchmaking minx. Ms. Heckerling (who also wrote the film) deserves extra credit for doing that homework, but some of the modified Austen situations become a little improbable here. That’s to be expected when characters who once paid endless polite visits to one another’s country houses are now conducting business at the dinner table with their cellular phones.
Do they agree? Are the Austen scenes “improbable”? Does the essence of the novel and its characters come through anyway? How “updateable” is Jane Austen in general, in their view?
What about 2009’s “Pride and Prejudice and Zombies” — an edition of Austen’s classic with “all-new scenes of bone-crunching zombie mayhem” that begins, “It is a truth universally acknowledged that a zombie in possession of brains must be in want of more brains”? In her essay “
In fact, “Pride and Prejudice” may already be a zombie novel, contends Brad Pasanek, a specialist in 18th-century literature at the University of Virginia.
“The characters other than the protagonist are so often surrounded by people who aren’t fully human, like machines that keep repeating the same things over and over again,” Professor Pasanek said. “All those characters shuffling in and out of scenes, always frustrating the protagonists. It’s a crowded but eerie landscape. What’s wrong with those people? They don’t dance well but move in jerky fits. Oh, they are headed this way!”
Ask, How do authors and filmmakers take Austen’s classic plots and characters and “resurrect, recast and reimagine” them? Which are most successful, in your view? How do you think Austen would react if she were to see or read them?
Have students choose an Austen update to compare and contrast with the original, and write essays in which they decide how well it has recast the original’s ideas, characters, themes, plot, setting, tone and language. Or, invite them to create their own adaptations.
Need help? They might consult 
Are your students Jane Austen fans? Invite them to prove it by passing The Times’s 
But no matter how much they enjoy her work, they probably don’t love it so much that they 
According to “
… there were knowing murmurs when Mr. Mullan noted that the title character herself delivers one-fourth of the dialogue in “Emma”; that the sentences uttered by Mr. Collins, the puffed-up cousin in “Pride and Prejudice,” are by far the longest of any Austen character; and that Isabella Thorpe uses the word “amazingly” so much in “Northanger Abbey” that the book’s impressionable heroine, Catherine Morland, begins using it, too.
Invite your students to listen to 
This summer, an Op-Ed columnist admonished readers like these that, “
I propose we get our noses out of Jane Austen. Not her books, her life. A victim of the most inane biographical rummaging at the best of times, Jane Austen is suffering unconscionable prying two centuries after her death. Where she lived, how she felt, how long her headaches lasted, whom she danced with, whom she loved, who loved her. Ask yourself which of her characters would interest themselves in tittle-tattle of this sort: Mr. Knightley or Mr. Collins, Fanny Price or Mary Crawford, Elizabeth Bennet or Lydia Bennet.
… Perhaps it’s in order to refuse the stern admonitions of her novels that we choose to call her “Jane,” hoping the familiarity will rub off on the act of reading her. But there’s more than a little sexism in the condescension. We don’t call Charles Dickens, Charles; Joseph Conrad, Joseph; or Franz Kafka, Franz.
One of our 
I am exactly the obsessive “Janeite” Howard Jacobson criticizes in this article. When I see a headline touting Jane Austen’s name, I click on it faster than an Amazon shopper on Black Friday, eager to learn about the author’s life. While Jacobson calls for readers to stop personalizing Austen, I believe we can connect to the author and respect her legacy. Unlike other writers, Austen strayed from the pattern of swashbuckling knights and heroes to write about normal life. Readers dig into her past because her writing subject invites inquiry. We ask, why did she choose naturalism over fantasy? Did the pressure of gender stereotypes catapult her literary career?
Ask your students who they think is right. Does an author and her life belong to admiring readers to personalize, or should Jane Austen, “a novelist of unfamiliar and uncomfortable genius,” be offered the respect of distance? Is it sexism that allows us to feel so close to “Jane”?
Finally, we suggest the following activities — even if they might be considered, by some, an “indignity.”
—Check out the New York Times-created Janeiac Game, which you can 
— Read “
_________
Here is what we have so far, and the collection is always growing: