
This was a year when books — like the rest of us — tried to keep up with the news, and did a pretty good job of it. Novels about global interconnectedness, political violence and migration; deeply reported nonfiction accounts of racial and economic strife in the United States; stories both imagined and real about gender, desire and the role of beauty in the natural world. There were several worthy works of escapism, of course, but the literary world mostly reflected the gravity and tumult of the larger world. Below, The New York Times’s three daily book critics — Dwight Garner, Jennifer Senior and Parul Sehgal — share their thoughts about their favorites among the books they reviewed this year, each list alphabetical by author. Janet Maslin, a former staff critic who remains a frequent contributor to The Times, also lists her favorites.
The year in books included a historic change at The Times. Michiko Kakutani stepped down as our chief book critic in July. Kakutani 
Each of these books, in a hard year, was one I didn’t know I needed until it appeared.
How else to put it? This was a corkscrew of a year. Its exceptionalness — the sheer blinding drama of it all — seems to have determined my reading preferences, repeatedly guiding me toward topical subjects. Not on this list, but worth mentioning: Joe Biden’s 
Because this is my final month on the job, I ask one minor indulgence: While my fellow staff critics have done the customary list of 10, I’ve added one more for the road. It’s “Cork Dork.” We can always use a good glass of wine, perhaps especially this year.
As it turns out, nearly every book on my list is a history of violence. More than half are stalked by monsters — real or imaginary. Several are tinged with elements of horror, science fiction and the gothic.
None of this was by design but it feels appropriate. It’s been that kind of year. But these books haven’t stuck with me just because they mirror the mood of a moment. Every book puts a new spin on a classic form: the biography, the short story, the campus novel. Old stories, new strategies. There’s a lesson in there somewhere. (A note on my selections: Since I only began as a staff book critic in July, a few of my picks are books I reviewed or assigned earlier in the year as an editor at The New York Times Book Review.)
Mine is the strangest of these lists. I left The Times’s staff two and a half years ago, but apparently I won’t go away. I write intermittently about books with the potential to be popular.
The good ones are hard to find. So rather than stick to books I actually reviewed this year, I drew on favorite things I read in 2017, even though one dates back to 1993 and another was reviewed by Dwight Garner. One criterion for this list is: “Is this something you’d give to a friend?” Everything on my list meets that standard.
I’ve left out major titles, like Ron Chernow’s 