
Re “
My grandparents had no special skills when they came to this country. They were poor and uneducated. They came from Russia and Poland because their religion limited their opportunities and put them at risk of death. Their children went to public schools and universities in New York and prospered.
I would like to think that our family has been an asset to this country. The Canadian immigration system, favored by Mr. Tepperman, is rational but cold and selfish. We welcome immigrants and refugees because that is what a decent, moral society does.
We should ask those who are fleeing abuse and death not what they can do for us, but what we can do for them.
KEITH S. HELLER, NEW YORK
Lest Jonathan Tepperman become too smug and self-righteous in extolling Canada’s immigration policy, he would do well to examine Canada’s sins.
Canada’s shameful attitude toward the immigration of Jews from Europe into Canada during the years 1933 to 1948 is best summed up by Irving M. Abella and Harold M. Troper in their book “None Is Too Many.” The title says it all.
(RABBI) SHAWN B. ZELL, DALLAS
“
But couldn’t the simple fact that Canada has a lower population density than the United States be more of a factor in Canadians’ greater willingness to allow immigrants compared with the United States?
This could also explain why, across the pond, the English were more receptive to anti-immigrant sentiment and a majority of them voted for Brexit, while a majority of Scots voted against.
According to Eurostat data from 2012, England has a population density of 407 residents per square kilometer, while Scotland has a density of 68.
PETER HOMANS, NEW YORK
Your Interpreter column identifies some of the ways in which Canada’s political parties have fostered multiculturalism and undermined the bases of anti-immigrant populism. Other factors also shape Canada’s political liberalism.
Canada has a generous social welfare system, and a far higher fraction of the population belongs to labor unions than in the United States. Government programs and unions both build economic security, which greatly lessens the economic anxiety that led to Brexit and Donald Trump’s election victories.
RICHARD LACHMANN, NEW YORK