
Mick Jagger has released a pair of bitterly political songs, “England Lost” and “Gotta Get a Grip.” His post-Brexit statement is “England Lost,” a rant about isolationism — “You can't get in and you can't get out” — set to a minor-key riff akin to “Miss You,” with plenty of harmonica. One video for the song features the actor Luke Evans as a man in a suit, desperate to get away, but its 
Few singers are more decorous than 
Gregg Allman, who 
Plinking electronic syncopations, and hints of reggae bass and trap drums, carry Charli XCX’s lighthearted half-apology that she ignored her female friends — didn’t even call them back — because “I was busy thinking about boys.” The video clip she co-directed is full of “boys,” with more than two dozen cameo appearances including Wiz Khalifa, Mark Ronson, Diplo, Stormzy, Mac DeMarco, Joey Badass and Joe Jonas — most of them in decidedly un-macho situations, with pink props and backdrops. Charli XCX may be boy-crazy, but she’s in charge. J.P.
With “Generations,” his new album for 25-piece orchestra, Mr. Landrus, a baritone saxophonist, takes the jazz big band tradition into the mesosphere. You’d think the eight-person string section, vibraphonist and twin drummers would be what sets this project apart. But Mr. Landrus’s plucky compositions — which seem to live on shifting ground, if any at all — play an equal role. Throughout the four-part “Jeru Concerto,” he states many of the melodies on the baritone; it’s constantly swirling and refocusing and changing its reference points, but his low, fibrous horn never gets lost among the stars. GIOVANNI RUSSONELLO
This is canny. When Macklemore crash-landed into the pop world a few years ago, he launched 
Gentle fingerpicking, brushes on the drums and a violin hovering in the background don’t ease the bleak outlook of “Just Like Love” from the four-song EP, “Weakness,” just released by the rootsy country singer Margo Price. Love is a double-cross; war is omnipresent. “Dust to dust and breath to breath/Sin and pain and loneliness/Life is real and so is death,” she sings, in a modal, Appalachian-tinged tune that ends as forlorn as it began. J.P. 
The little yip that Julia Michaels uses when she sings her concisely barbed little hook, “Uh huh,” combines affirmation, nervousness, eagerness, fears of commitment and willingness to risk it. The verses, wondering “Should we slow down,” are backed by acoustic guitar, exposed and vulnerable; the choruses charge ahead with distorted bass and a firm beat. Ms. Michaels, 
Purity Ring hasn’t changed its sound much in the two years since its 
The country singer Ashley McBryde has a clean, powerful and slightly creamy voice, and it’s crucial to delivering this song with a mature kind of calm. But what makes “A Little Dive Bar in Dahlonega” transcend is songwriting, songwriting, songwriting. Written by Ms. McBryde with Nicolette Hayford and Jesse Rice, it’s intelligently constructed and casually delivered, full of rich imagery (“The worker bee that ain’t gettin’ no honey”), potent singalong moments (“Here’s to the breakups/that didn’t break us”) and words throbbing with outright lustrous feeling: “Man, it’s a hittin’-rock-bottom, smoke-‘em-if-you-got-‘em, nothing’s-goin’-right/makin’-the-best-of-the-worst-day kinda night.” J.C.
“Can’t understand the way you feel/It’s safe to say I’ve never tried”: Jessica Lea Mayfield is sweet and lonesome, and maybe a little mischievous, on this, the beautiful, gentle country-rock title track from her coming fourth studio album. Ms. Mayfield’s singing is wistful and thickly decayed, but the mood here is quietly upbeat — she has sloughed off some dead weight. “It’s nice to have a guy around/For lifting heavy things and opening jars,” she sings, damning with faint praise, and barely even that. J.C.
The guitarist Peter Bernstein has a sharp articulation, a tersely melodic way of phrasing and a devilish compositional style. On “Signs LIVE!” he’s also got an unbeatable team: He first convened the pianist Brad Mehldau, the bassist Christian McBride and the drummer Gregory Hutchinson over two decades ago, for a recording session that led to the remarkable album “Signs of Life,” from 1995. All four were in their 20s, on their way to becoming looming figures in jazz. The newly released “Signs LIVE!” captures the band’s first reunion since then — two years ago at Lincoln Center. “Jive Coffee,” also included on the original album, is a loping Bernstein composition that harks to Wes Montgomery, lacing subtle, Afro-Latin syncopation into a loose swing feel, but warping it into a five-beat cycle. All four band members take impressive solo turns — culminating in a splashy display from Mr. Hutchinson, who never loses touch with the guiding cadence of the melody. G.R.