
FRANKFURT — The European Central Bank took steps Friday to ensure it can oversee trillions of euros in London trading of derivatives and other risky securities even after Britain leaves the European Union.
The central bank’s action was an example of how Britain’s vote to leave the bloc — which took place a year ago Friday — could force a realignment of financial markets and undercut London’s status as a global trading center. The central bank asked for a change in 
“Brexit creates a new reality where there are some clearinghouses that are outside the E.U. but critically important to the E.U.” said Nicolas Véron, a senior fellow at Bruegel, a research organization in Brussels. The central bank needs “to have enough control in time of crisis.”
London clearinghouses, which dominate trading in derivatives and other securities denominated in euros, have become even more powerful in recent years. Under new rules created to prevent a repeat of the 2008 financial crisis, regulators around the world have pushed banks to carry out the trading of derivatives using clearinghouses, where the transactions can be better monitored.
Previously, banks typically traded many derivatives in secret with one another, making it difficult for outsiders to know what kind of risks might be lurking in the financial system. Although the system is more transparent, the stakes are raised if a clearinghouse has problems.
Although Britain has never been a member of the eurozone, London clearinghouses stand in the middle of transactions involving huge volumes of securities denominated in euros. One example is the so-called repo market, in which banks, hedge funds or other investors make short-term loans to one another using bonds or other securities as collateral.
The repo market is essential to the functioning of the eurozone banking system. In 
The European Central Bank requested the additional powers at the urging of the European Commission, which has begun 
Mr. Véron said that the European Central Bank might have an interest in encouraging trading of euro securities to remain in London. Restricting trading overseas would undercut the central bank’s ambition to make the euro a global currency. Businesses and investors would be less likely to carry out transactions in euros if trading outside the eurozone were restricted.
Under the proposed legislation, the central bank would not directly regulate clearinghouses that handle euro transactions. That would be the responsibility of the European Securities and Markets Authority. But the central bank would have the power to monitor clearinghouse operations and take action in a crisis.
It is a battle that the central bank has fought in the past. Last year, the bank lost a court fight with Britain over whether it had the power to regulate clearinghouses. But in ruling against the central bank, the Court of Justice of the European Union said that the European Parliament could grant such powers if the central bank requested them.